BQLLDA: A Blockchain, Q-Learning, and Cryptography-Driven Secure Approach to
Mitigate Link Discovery Attacks in SDVNs
Patikiri Arachchige Don Shehan Nilmantha Wijesekara
a,
, Kalupahana Liyanage Kushan Sudheera
b
Sandaruwan Gardiyawasam Pussewalage , Geeth Priyankara Wijesiri
a
, Harsha
a
a Department of Electrical & Information Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, University of Ruhuna, Galle, 80000, Sri Lanka
b Department of Information and Communication Technology, Faculty of Engineering & Science, University of Agder, Grimstad, Norway
Abstract
In a Software-Defined Vehicular Network (SDVN), the operation of vehicular networks can be improved due to opti-
mizations at the controller driven by a global network view. However, such performance can be drastically affected if
the network topology is poisoned by Link Discovery Attacks (LDAs), causing packet loss, exhausting the network, and
enabling eavesdropping. Recent solutions for LDA mitigation are centralized with no fault tolerance and assume a high
trust in the controller in the LD process. Moreover, they struggle to mitigate the attack for dynamic SDVN LD owing
to frequent topology changes with non-adaptive link rediscovery. Other key shortcomings include (i) lack of distributed
node behavioral monitoring and blacklisting, (ii) high communication interception, (iii) lack of authenticity and integrity,
and (iv) relying on single observation without distributed consensus. In order to respond to this research gap, we first
demonstrate 5 LDAs that can exist in a Zero-Trust (ZT) standard SDVN architecture by exploiting the vulnerabilities
in location tracking and the LD service. Our main contribution is to propose a novel framework to detect LDA by
using Q-learning to derive link states by considering the link’s suspicious behavior, packet delivery, and latency and with
a location-driven adaptive LD technique. Attack mitigation is achieved through (i) cycle- and non-cycle-based digital
signatures with mixed post-quantum and classical cryptography, (ii) Zero-Knowledge Proofs (ZKPs) of Hash Message
Authentication Codes (HMACs) stored in the blockchain, (iii) time-limited session-based HMACs, (iv) packet limiting
with signature matching, (v) location verification and behavioral monitoring, and (vi) symmetric key deriving using
Diffie Hellman. Moreover, a permissioned blockchain is utilized by using 3 Smart Contracts (SCs). The first SC handles
node registration using a challenge-response mechanism and subsequent node authentication using signatures, ZKPs,
attributes, and encrypted HMACs. The second SC is used to maintain non-tamperable node reputation and location
scores by monitoring node behavior and maintaining endorser trust scores for weighted reputation updates for consensus-
based node blacklisting. Furthermore, a third SC is used to verify the discovered link state and penalize the controller’s
malicious behavior using the trust-score-weighted blockchain endorsement policy-driven consensus of the broadcasted
HELLO packet and packet-out received nodes to further evaluate the controller’s trust and switch it under low trust. We
tested all 5 attack scenarios individually and in combination using NS-3 and Hyperledger Fabric simulations. Results
show that the proposed BQLLDA is effective in mitigating the attacks, as the combined attack evaluations resulted in (i)
the best packet delivery ratio (97%-98% under 80% attacks), (ii) zero packet interception ratio, (iii) the best Matthews
correlation coefficient (0.95-0.66 under 80% attacks), (iv) competitive channel utilization (14%-37%), and (v) latency
(24-170 ms), albeit with higher computational complexity (46-323 ms) compared to existing approaches.
Keywords: Blockchain, Link discovery attack, Reinforcement-learning, SDVN, Vehicular networks
1. Introduction
Email addresses: nilmantha@eie.ruh.ac.lk (Patikiri
Arachchige Don Shehan Nilmantha Wijesekara
),
kushan@eie.ruh.ac.lk (Kalupahana Liyanage Kushan
Sudheera
), harsha.sandaruwan@uia.no (Harsha Sandaruwan
Gardiyawasam Pussewalage), geeth@eie.ruh.ac.lk (Geeth
Priyankara Wijesiri
)
Preprint submitted to Computer Networks
1.1. Background on SDVN and link discovery
Programmability and flexibility of vehicular networks
can be improved by deploying the idea of Software-Defined
Networking (SDN) to retrieve the scheme called Software-
Defined Vehicular Networks (SDVN) [1]. The Link Discov-
ery (LD) Attack (LDA), also known as the topology poi-
soning attack in a narrow scope, attempts to manipulate
the link states of the topology view by attacking the link
discovery process with attacks causing up to 90% packet
January 3, 2026loss, enabling widespread eavesdropping, and disrupting
safety-critical vehicle-to-vehicle communications [10]. In
SDN, this attack takes advantage of the vulnerabilities
in the Link Layer Discovery Protocol (LLDP). Due to
this, the performance gains that can be achieved using the
global network view of the controller can be drastically
reduced.
In traditional VANETs, links are usually discovered by
broadcasting of HELLO packets, where the neighbors that
received the packet add the sender’s identifying informa-
tion as one of their neighbors [2]. In this technique of
link discovery, there is no validation of links by a trusted
entity such as a controller, and thus it has a high vulner-
ability to attacks like link fabrication, replay, etc., due to
the possible existence of attacks in the data plane.
In SDVN, the link discovery service is location-driven
[3], and it needs to be initiated frequently owing to
mobility-induced link changes, unlike in SDN. This makes
the LDS in SDVN more complex and vulnerable than
that of SDN, bringing in necessities for real-time decision-
making (as links are volatile) with robust security mecha-
nisms to defend against attacks such as location-triggered
attacks. However, software-defined link discovery can
bring in additional vulnerabilities such as controller mis-
configuration attacks [4], misbehavior due to software or
hardware bugs and hacker attacks [5], and denial of service
attacks [6], which can totally deteriorate the functioning of
the link discovery service. A comprehensive survey on the
attacks on the control plane further confirms that attacks
on the control plane can poison the network topology view
[7]. In such a case, the link discovery service can become a
single point of failure. The existing link discovery service
protocol in SDN (LLDP) basically relies on the trust in
the centralized controller to discover links; however, this
trust is questionable given that recent studies have shown
that the controller can be attacked.
First, they assume controller trustworthiness and employ
centralized architectures that lack Byzantine fault toler-
ance [14, 16], making them vulnerable when controllers
are compromised. Second, they use non-adaptive link re-
discovery mechanisms unsuitable for high-mobility vehic-
ular environments, resulting in excessive communication
overhead or stale topology information [10]. Third, they
rely on single-observation verification without distributed
consensus, increasing false negative rates in dynamic wire-
less scenarios experiencing temporary congestion, interfer-
ence, or channel fading. Fourth, they do not adequately
address the full spectrum of attacks possible in zero-trust
[11] architectures and lack distributed node behavioral
monitoring and blacklisting. Moreover, they lack com-
prehensive cryptographic defense, making them vulnerable
to eavesdropping, tampering and manipulation, replaying,
and flooding attacks under high attack prevalence. These
deficiencies leave SDVNs vulnerable to sophisticated co-
ordinated attacks that can systematically deteriorate the
link discovery process.
Currently, only one LLDP packet is used in declaring
a link state as on or off. Even though the preceding ap-
proach can provide a good output in a wired SDN domain,
we argue that using a single observation can increase the
probability of false negatives (incorrectly determining links
as off) in a dynamic wireless SDVN scenario due to tem-
porary packet congestion, interference, channel fading, etc.
Thus, in an SDVN scenario, deploying reinforcement learn-
ing with multiple observations in arriving at a decision is
a better approach.
1.4. Contributions and novelty
Contributions: This paper addresses these limitations
through the following contributions:
1. Comprehensive attack modeling: We systemati-
cally identify and demonstrate five LDA variants that
exploit vulnerabilities in zero-trust SDVN architec-
tures: (1) falsified location-triggered flooding attacks,
(2) packet flooding by large quantities, (3) link fabri-
cation attacks, (4) man-in-the-middle/replay attacks,
and (5) link vanishing attacks. We show how these
attacks can be launched from compromised vehicles,
Road Side Units (RSUs), and even malicious con-
trollers, targeting both control plane and data plane
components.
2. Q-learning driven-adaptive link discovery We
propose a novel blockchain and Q-learning-driven link
discovery attack mitigation framework that integrates
three core mechanisms: Q-learning-based adaptive
link state determination- using Q learning that con-
siders suspicious behavior, packet delivery, and la-
tency with state-adaptive epsilon-greedy exploration
to intensively verify suspicious links while minimizing
overhead for confirmed stable links;
3. Blockchain-based authentication and trust
management framework:
A permissioned
1.2. Significance and impact of link discovery attacks in
SDVN
Mitigating LDA in SDVN is important because it deter-
mines whether the communication takes place reliably and
securely. These networks often broadcast or route packets
through multiple hops, based on diverse applications, to
disseminate various information like mobility data, traf-
fic conditions, environmental conditions, etc. If fake links
are created, communication is eavesdropped on, or exist-
ing links appear to have vanished, it can drastically affect
the reliability, security, and efficiency of the communica-
tion. If attackers become successful, it can lead to in-
correct routing decisions, inefficient traffic management,
safety hazards, etc., degrading the overall performance of
the network.
1.3. Limitations of existing approaches
Despite the severity of these threats, existing LDA mit-
igation approaches suffer from fundamental limitations.
2blockchain architecture with triple smart contracts—
(i) one for challenge-response-based registration and
dual-stage authentication (RASC algorithm) using
Zero-Knowledge Proofs (ZKP-STARK), FALCON-
1024 signatures, and encrypted attributes, (ii) second
one for consensus-based reputation management
with weighted endorser trust scoring and black-
listing (BWTRCB algorithm), and (iii) third one
for controller trust evaluation (BCTES algorithm)
enabling automatic switch to trusted controllers
when controllers exhibit malicious behavior.
4. Multi-layered cryptographic defense for link
discovery: We employ comprehensive security mech-
anisms with explicit attack mitigation roles: mixed
(i) post-quantum (FALCON-1024 signatures for non-
repudiation of packeti n authentication and Kyber-
1024 for quantum-resistant encryption of symmetric
keys) and (ii) classical cryptography (RSA-2048 for
cycle-based packeto ut signatures preventing fabrica-
tion, ECDH-256 for ephemeral shared secret estab-
lishment enabling forward secrecy, and AES-256 for
uplink encryption protecting identities from intercep-
tion), providing both current security and quantum
computing resistance; (iii) time-limited session-based
HMACs (HMAC-SHA-256 with timestamps) ensuring
strict temporal binding to invalidate replayed pack-
ets beyond their validity window; (iv) cycle-based
digital signatures with AES-256 encrypted secret
keys preventing attackers from fabricating controller-
originated LLDP packets; (v) location verification
through inter-aggregate validation (detecting falsi-
fied neighbor locations via HMAC-SHA-256 integrity
checks), (vi) intra-aggregate validation (identifying
aggregator location tampering through distance con-
sistency), and (vii) behavioral monitoring (flagging
physically impossible location changes via kinematic
constraints) to eliminate location falsification attacks;
(viii) packet limiting with signature-based duplicate
detection (restricting identical RSA-2048/FALCON-
1024 signed packets to thresholds) mitigating data
plane and control plane flooding; and (ix) reverse
LLDP with IEEE 802.11p MAC-layer port mirror in-
spection (authenticating traced ports via HMAC ver-
ification) countering link vanishing attacks where ma-
licious nodes drop or fabricate packets to hide legiti-
mate links.
5. Comprehensive evaluation: We conduct exten-
sive simulation-based evaluation using NS-3 and Hy-
perledger Fabric across all five attack scenarios indi-
vidually and in combination with attack penetration
ranging from 0% to 100%. Statistical analysis us-
ing Wilcoxon signed-rank tests with Holm-Bonferroni
correction validates BQLLDA’s superior performance:
maintaining 97-98% packet delivery ratio under 80%
attack penetration (compared to 9-50% for existing
techniques), achieving zero packet interception across
all scenarios, and sustaining a Matthews Correlation
Coefficient of 0.95-0.66 (versus 0.35-0.44 for base-
lines).
Novelty: To the best of our knowledge, this is the first
work to: (1) model link discovery in SDVN as a zero-trust
architecture without assuming controller or RSU trust-
worthiness, (2) integrate blockchain-based distributed con-
sensus with reinforcement learning for adaptive link state
determination under adversarial conditions, (3) address
controller-level attacks through trust evaluation and auto-
matic failover mechanisms, and (4) provide comprehensive
defense against the full spectrum of LDAs (flooding, fabri-
cation, replay, vanishing) in a unified framework validated
through rigorous statistical analysis.
1.5. Proposed approach and design rationale
In this paper, we first investigate diverse (location falsifi-
cation, flooding, man-in-the-middle, link fabrication, and
link vanishing) LDAs for the zero-trust standard SDVN
architecture, where both the control plane and the data
plane can be attacked. First, we use a permissioned
blockchain for node registration, authentication, and node
reputation management. Next, we deploy a blockchain-
based Q-learning approach for detecting all LDAs re-
inforced with adaptive location verification and behav-
ioral monitoring (location falsification, fabrication, replay,
flooding, packet dropping), packet limiting with signature
matching to reduce flooding attacks, cycle-based digital
signatures with asymmetric encrypted secret keys to pre-
vent packet fabrication, time-limited session-based hash
message authentication secret key issuing with their link
node IDs and timestamps stored on the blockchain to re-
duce man-in-the-middle attacks, and reverse LLDP having
port mirror with packet tracing inspection to mitigate link
vanishing attacks. Next, as the controller can become a
single point of attack in software-defined link discovery, we
verify the discovered link state by selecting a random set of
non-malicious nodes, broadcasting a HELLO packet, and
then using node trust-score-weighted endorsement policy-
driven consensus of the received nodes to further evaluate
the controller’s trust using received HELLO packets and
packet out in the blockchain and switch the controller to
the nearest available trusted controller if the trust score
is too low. Thus, our approach is hybrid, where we use a
secure LLDP to reduce data plane attacks and verify the
operation of LLDP using a secure blockchain endorsement
policy-driven consensus-based HELLO packet discovery.
Finally, we present a systematic framework and algorithm
to mitigate the attacks. As we felt, we are the pioneers to
propose a classical Q-learning and blockchain-based frame-
work with multiple security measures to mitigate LDSA in
a zero-trust standard SDVN architecture.
Recent works in this domain do not model link discov-
ery in SDVN as a zero-trust architecture, and they have
assumed that certain entities like road-side units and con-
trollers are fully trusted. However, we argue that such
assumptions are unrealistic owing to the fact that RSUs
3and controllers cannot be fully trusted. In contrast, we
use the permissioned blockchain to derive trust scores for
each endorser in the blockchain used in distributed en-
dorsement and subsequent consensus approaches. In an
SDVN, trust is essential for secure communication and co-
ordination. Blockchain enables trustless interactions be-
tween vehicles, RSUs, and controllers, ensuring data ex-
changes are verified and tamper-resistant. We propose
to switch the controller to the closest trusted controller,
when the controller is detected as untrusted. Moreover, we
prevent modification of zero-knowledge proofs required for
registration and authentication of nodes by storing them
in the blockchain, making sure that only authorized de-
vices can join and operate in the network. Regardless of
the size of the vehicular network, there exist few endorsers
for a given operation in the permissioned blockchain, im-
proving the scalability compared to a public blockchain.
For instance, for reputation management of the proposed
scheme, only the location aggregating nodes and the con-
troller are needed as endorsers in the endorsement policy-
driven consensus process. Moreover, we do not use com-
putationally inefficient proof of work consensus, but use
the more computationally efficient and Byzantine fault-
tolerant scheme BFT-SMaRt in the ordering stage. Fur-
thermore, the permissioned blockchain improves the secu-
rity of the overall link discovery, as only registered nodes
are permitted in blockchain endorsement, consensus, and
validation processes. Finally, blockchain is utilized to track
the long-term behavior of the network elements and peri-
odic registration and updating, and while during authenti-
cation in a link discovery cycle, a blockchain transaction is
committed only once at the end of reinforcement learning
as a private data collection; thus, it does not compromise
the real-time functioning of the SDVN.
Deep reinforcement learning is less suitable for the pro-
posed link discovery framework, as the state-action space
is discrete and finite and does not involve a generalization
of a continuous state-action space. The proposed location-
based adaptive link discovery can reduce the overall com-
putational and communication cost by adaptively discov-
ering links upon requirement without periodic link inves-
tigation, unlike in existing studies. Furthermore, we use
a state-adaptive epsilon-greedy for Q-learning to discover
more (exploit the action space more) when a link contains
one or more malicious nodes and to discover less (explore
the action space more) otherwise.
2. Related Work
In VANETs, some have used modified versions of
HELLO packet-based neighbor discovery by utilizing a
gossip-driven information passing approach and consid-
ered cases of multi-packet reception known as GSIM-ND
[8].
Earlier work has demonstrated link fabrication and re-
play attacks as two of the forms of link discovery attacks,
and attack procedure and impact have been studied [9]. In
[10], authors show host-based and switch-based link dis-
covery attacks in SDN and propose an active port-based
defense mechanism with an empirical analysis. The au-
thors in [12] deploy an anomaly detection mechanism using
correlation and round-trip time measurements to analyze
network traffic to determine whether link discovery attacks
exist.
SLDP has been shown as a lightweight and secure link
discovery mechanism in SDN that has modified the LLDP
packet structure and used algorithms to protect against
poisoning, replay, and flooding attacks of the link discov-
ery service [13]. Similarly, Link Guard is a framework to
discover links by mitigating LDA by using link latency
measurements specially applicable for host- and switch-
driven fabrication attacks [14]. Moreover, ESLD is an-
other LDA mitigation scheme in SDN specially designed
to prevent link fabrication attacks by using a port clas-
sification method, message authentication codes, and di-
rectional transmissions [15]. Alternatively, another study
uses pure cryptographic approaches: authentication codes
and elliptic curve cryptography in the Mininet emulator
for combating against topology poisoning attacks [16].
Recently, some researchers have investigated the topol-
ogy poisoning attacks for a software-defined vehicular edge
network under the assumption of road-side units being ide-
ally secure, and the impact of attacks has been studied [3].
Another similar work studies the effect of link discovery
attacks in software-defined vehicular edge networks under
4 controllers and further proposes a deep reinforcement
learning-based self-recovery mechanism [17].
Recent studies have shown blockchain as a candidate for
mitigating diverse attacks in SDN, like distributed denial
of service, misrouting, man-in-the-middle, flow table poi-
soning, etc. [18]. However, as we know, this is the first
time blockchain is applied to mitigate link discovery at-
tacks in the SDVN domain. Blockchain is essential here
because: (1) controller compromise requires distributed
trust rather than centralized verification, (2) Byzantine
fault tolerance is needed when multiple controllers may
collude, and (3) immutable node reputation management
and behavioral monitoring in a distributed manner with-
out a centralized authority (4) Automatic trusted node
registration, authentication, and controller switching with-
out a third party.
Table 1 shows a summary of the comparison of existing
approaches with the proposed BQLLDA framework.
1.6. Paper organization
The remaining sections are arranged as follows: Sec-
tion 2 reviews existing work on LDAs; Section 3 presents
the methodology of the proposed cryptographically secure,
blockchain and reinforcement learning-based LDA mitiga-
tion framework; Section 4 presents the test results of how
5 attacks can be mitigated using the proposed system; and
finally, Section 6 concludes the paper.
4Table 1: Comparison of LDA mitigation approaches.
SLDP [13]Controller
Trust
AssumedQuantum Re-
sistance
NoByzantine
Tolerance
NoNoLink-Guard [14]AssumedNoNoNoESLD [15]
Pure Crypto [16]
Port-based
de-
fense [10]
Proposed
BQLLDAAssumed
AssumedNo
NoNo
NoNo
NoAttack Cover-
age
Fabrication only
Fabrication/Replay/
Flooding
Fabrication only
Fabrication/Replay
AssumedNoNoNoFabrication
Verified via BCYes
(PQ+classical)Yes
(BFT
consensus)YesAll 5 attacks
Approach
3. Methodology
Adaptive LD
3.1.3. Open Flow discovery protocol in brief
In Open-Flow Discovery Protocol (OFDP), all switches
(MAC address and port IDs) are initially discovered by
the controller, and then LLDP packets are created for
each switch port as packet out. In the packet out sent
by the controller, it explicitly sets the LLDP Data Unit
(LLDPDU)’s chassis ID, port ID, and Time to Live (TTL)
TLVs. Switches that receive the packet out forward it
through the specified ports, and the switches that receive
the packet create a packet in by embedding its received
port ID and MAC address as metadata and sending it back
to the controller. This process has to be shown vulnerable
to several attacks in the SDN context under the assump-
tions given above, and its vulnerability is even higher in
the context of SDVN, specifically in a zero-trust case, as
discussed in the attack scenarios demonstrated in the fol-
lowing sections.
3.1. Link discovery in SDVN
3.1.1. Key differences from prior work and as-
sumptions
Recent work has assumed that connections between
Road Side Units (RSUs) and controllers are fully secured,
and ignored the vulnerabilities in Vehicle-to-Vehicle (V2V)
links [3]. Moreover, they have assumed the architecture of
the SDVN to be constricted to a vehicular edge network
[3, 17]. However, we argue that V2V links are the most
vulnerable links for LDA in SDVN due to the lowest link
lifetimes (high mobility of vehicles). Moreover, there is a
possibility that LDA can be launched from a compromised
RSU as well. Furthermore, SDVN is not always restricted
to vehicular edge network architecture (hierarchical con-
trol plane), while the most generic one is the SDN applied
to VANET having a flat data plane [19].
3.2. Threat model and attack scenarios
3.1.2. LLDP packet transmission strategy in Zero-
Trust SDVN
We consider that Link Layer Discovery Protocol (LLDP)
packets are unicasted to detect I2I (typically wired) and
I2V (wireless) links, while they are broadcasted to detect
V2V (wireless) and V2I links. The choice of broadcast-
ing LLDP for more mobile links reduces the requirement
of frequent unicasting of multiple packets for individual
links. We do not use the HELLO packet broadcast used
in traditional VANETs for discovering non-I2I links, as it
does not involve controller validation; thus, it is highly
vulnerable to attacks. Moreover, we consider a zero-trust
scenario, where we trigger LLDP packets based on an as-
sessment of location tracking; the endorsers of locations
and duplicate packets are given trust scores based on en-
dorsement policy-driven consensus; and we adaptively in-
vestigate links more when the nodes are detected as sus-
picious; and finally, we verify LLDP and evaluate con-
troller trust and consider switching it using blockchain-
based HELLO packets and packet out counting for a sub-
set of non-malicious nodes.
3.2.1. Threat model
We model attackers with capabilities: (C1) compromise
up to n-f data plane nodes where n is the total num-
ber of data plane nodes and f ∈ [0, n] is the number of
data plane attacker nodes not necessarily byzantine fault
tolerant, (C2) compromise controllers up to nc − 1 (up
to all 3 out of 4 in evaluations); the ordering service
(run by a subset of trusted consortium nodes, not nec-
essarily controllers) tolerates up to ⌊(no − 1)/3⌋ Byzan-
tine faults among orderers (no = numberof orderers) via
BFT-SMaRt, with additional resilience against controller
compromise provided by trust evaluation and automatic
switching (BCTES), (C3) intercept/modify/replay/flood
wireless transmissions, (C4) computationally bounded
by classical computers for non-cryptographic operations;
cryptographic attacks are assumed unsuccessful due to the
use of post-quantum-secure primitives for long-term keys
and frequent key rotation for classical components. We
assume: (A1) cryptographic primitives are secure, (A2)
the blockchain consensus mechanism is BFT-resilient, and
(A3) at least one trusted controller exists initially.
53.2.2. Overview of the five link discovery attacks
Attacks 1 to 5, with variants for the cases where the
attackers reside in the control plane or data plane, are
illustrated in Fig. 1.
where the uplink and downlink are typically connected
using the same communication channel (LTE/Ethernet).
This results in packet losses in the network.
Control plane fabrication. On the other hand, when
the controller acts maliciously, existing links will be dis-
covered using LLDP, as shown in Fig. 1e. Once they are
discovered, the controller will maliciously create fake links
between data plane nodes, where links do not exist.
3.2.3. Attack 1: Falsified location triggered flooding at-
tacks
In a standard SDVN, location tracking is used to identify
the location of RSUs and highly dynamic vehicles. An
attacker (for example, the car in Fig. 1a) can falsify the
location of vehicles, continuously provoking the controller
to trigger LLDP packets, as depicted in Fig. 1a. Moreover,
if an RSU is compromised, its location can be falsified to
frequently provoke other nodes for link discovery. In this
attack, fake links cannot be fabricated; however, it can
exhaust the controller and switches. Furthermore, when
the controller is malicious, it can contribute to changing
the locations and trigger copies of LLDP packets itself, as
shown in Fig. 1a. Moreover, it can be proved that the
number of link discovery packets, even for a 50% falsified
location in a location-driven link discovery in SDVN, is
less than the link discovery overhead in SDN for a given
topology with the same number of nodes. Thus, the effect
of this attack is minor.
3.2.6. Attack 4: Man in the middle/replay attack
Data plane MiTM/Replay. In this attack (data
plane), a compromised host can replay the legitimate
LLDP packets, convincing the controller that a direct link
exists between two other hosts, directing the traffic in-
tended for another host to itself. Due to this, the compro-
mised hosts can eavesdrop on the communication. This is
demonstrated in Fig. 1f, where the RSU is compromised,
where it utilizes the legitimate link discovery packets of
the car and bus to deceive the controller that a link exists
between the car and bus, eavesdropping on the communi-
cation between them.
Control plane MiTM/Replay. Similar to a link fab-
rication attack, when the controller acts as a malicious,
existing links will be discovered using LLDP, as shown in
Fig. 1g. Once they are discovered, the controller will ma-
liciously create fake links between data plane nodes, where
links do not exist; however, in this case, between 2 ports
of the same channel. In this case, an intermediate node
can overhear the communication that nodes try to send
among the fake link.
3.2.4. Attack 2: Flooding attacks by large quantities of
packets
Data Plane Flooding. In this attack (data plane), as
shown in Fig. 1b, an attacker attempts to send a large
quantity of copies of legitimate link discovery packets to
the neighbor switches to exhaust them. The controller
uplink will also be unnecessarily loaded due to neighboring
switches forwarding the received packets to the controller.
3.2.7. Attack 5: Link vanishing attack
Data plane vanishing. In the data plane attack version,
this is a combined version of link fabrication and packet
replay attacks. Vehicles and RSUs in SDVN are associ-
ated with broadcast domain ports. An attacker can first
fabricate LLDP packets to change the broadcast domain
port of a vehicle or RSU (for example, attackers 1 and 2 in
Fig. 1h). Next, these fabricated packets sent through the
legitimate port can be replayed in an intermediate node
(for example, attacker 3 in Fig. 1h), deceiving the con-
troller that links through the legitimate port do not exist.
This also contributes to packet losses. This attack in the
data plane can also be launched by the attackers inten-
tionally dropping legitimate LLDP packets, as shown in
the magenta-color crosses in Fig. 1h.
Control Plane Flooding. When the attack exists in the
control plane, many copies of LLDP packets will be sent
by the controller to exhaust the network, as shown in Fig.
1c.
3.2.5. Attack 3: Link fabrication attack
Data plane fabrication. In this attack (data plane), as
shown in Fig. 1d, a hijacked vehicle or RSU can be injected
with a fabricated LLDP packet to deceive the controller of
links that do not exist. For instance, with reference to Fig.
1d, an attacker (the compromised car), upon receiving a
packet out, sends a fabricated (P acket in + P acket out)
LLDP packet directly to the controller, deceiving the con-
troller that a link between the attacker (car) and the bus
exists. Moreover, a second node (RSU, being the attacker)
can also fabricate a packet ((P acket in + P acket out))
when a legitimate LLDP packet forwarded by the previous
node is received, where it will discard the legitimate packet
(packet out), as shown in Fig. 1d. This attack is highly
effective if the attacking node is aware of the other node
IDs and ports in the network, which can be achieved by in-
tercepting the packet in and packet out intended for and
from other nodes that can occur in an SDVN scenario,
Control plane vanishing. In the control plane attack
version, links are discovered using the LLDP protocol as
usual; however, some packets may be maliciously discarded
by the controller, resulting in existing links vanishing, as
highlighted in Fig. 1i.
6(a)(b)(c)
(d)(e)(f )
(g)(h)(i)
Figure 1: Link Discovery attack scenarios in SDVN (a) Attack 1: Falsified location triggered flooding attacks (b)
Attack 2: Flooding attacks by large quantities of packets –Data plane (c) Attack 2 – control plane (d)Attack 3: Link
fabrication attack–data plane (e) Attack 3–control plane (f) Attack 4: Man-in-the-middle attack – data plane (g) Attack
5: Link vanishing attack–data plane (h) Attack 5 – control plane.
3.3. Proposed mitigation framework
Consortium formation and controller switch-
ing. As the proposed solution is blockchain-based, the
blockchain network is required to be formed first. All
primary controllers will create their own consortiums
with their own dynamic subordinate certificate authori-
ties (initially, the controller itself for bootstrapping the
3.3.1. Proposed system architecture
Multi-controller and permissioned blockchain ar-
chitecture. The architecture of the proposed system with
a multi-controller SDVN and underlying permissioned
blockchain is graphically illustrated in Fig. 2.
7Figure 2: System architecture.
blockchain) governed by a static global certificate author-
ity (hosted outside the SDVN) and orderers (a sub-set of
trusted nodes). Note that subordinate CAs are imple-
mented inside Docker containers and are thus indepen-
dent from the ledger. Thus, each consortium will have
their own communication channels, and peers (data plane
nodes except orderers) will join each consortium, as shown
in Fig. 2. Note that if a data plane node is directly con-
nected to multiple controllers, they will be part of all such
consortiums unless the controller is found malicious. We
consider a flat multi-controller architecture for the SDVN
with controllers fully connected for synchronization.
As shown in Fig. 2, each controller is responsible for
managing (link discovery in this work) their own sub-
network, as shown in the corresponding control plane com-
munication. Note that for each sub-network, there exists
a separate blockchain consortium with a separate commu-
nication channel, as shown in Fig. 2. However, if the con-
troller is found to be malicious, then it will be switched
to the nearest trusted controller. If the nearest trusted
controller is a backup controller, the consortium’s channel
will not be deleted; however, it will be reconfigured with
a new subordinate certificate authority. Otherwise, the
consortium will be deleted, and the peers and orderers of
the deleted consortium will be assigned to the consortium
of the nearest trusted controller. As the architecture is
zero-trust and due to the requirement of the controller in
the endorsement process, once initial registration is done,
the subordinate certificate authority will be switched to a
Docker container in a trusted node. Furthermore, it will
be changed from time to time among a subset of the most
trusted nodes (as the trust of the node acting as the certifi-
cate authority should also be monitored and as the trust
can be dynamic), and we give priority to the RSUs over
vehicles due to their stationary nature and tendency to
Figure 3: Block diagram of the proposed LDA mitigation
system.
remain in the network longer.
3.3.2. Overall LDA mitigation process
Block Diagram and High-Level Modules. Block dia-
gram of the proposed secure LDS attack mitigation system
is shown in Fig. 3.
Key Interacting Modules. As shown in Fig. 3, the sys-
tem consists of a registration and authentication module
to handle vehicle and RSU registration and authentication
with the controller using a permissioned blockchain. Links
that need to be discovered are output by the Location-
based Link creation and expiration driven Adaptive Link
Discovery Initiation (LLALDI) module based on the dis-
tance matrix and malicious nodes found by the location
verification and behavioral monitoring module. Based on
LLALDI output, the link discovery service will discover
links, and the state of links will be updated. Note that
the LLALDI module, link discovery service, and state de-
termination are embedded in a blockchain and Q-learning-
8(a)
(b)
Figure 4: The process flow of proposed authentication and registration module (a) Registration (b) Authentication.
based algorithm known as BQLLDA to discover link states.
These modules are discussed in detail in the following sec-
tions.sonation attacks. Note that in the proposed permis-
sioned blockchain-based module, for node registration, a
challenge-response mechanism is utilized.
3.3.3. Cryptographic definitions and notations
KDF refers to a key derivation function, which is deter-
mined as given in (1), unless otherwise specified.Registration phase: initial handshake and key
negotiation. First, similar to the TLS-1.3 handshake,
the node (i) first sends a HELLO message to the con-
troller (C) with ECDHE curves, which are negotiated
curves from a secure set (e.g., Curve25519 or NIST
P-256), and nonce (N onv –to prevent registration re-
play attacks) with a signature created from the node’s
long-term private key (Lipri,LT ). Next, the controller
sends a Proof-of-Work challenge and a registration key–
k reg along with the ephemeral public key of the con-
troller (LC
pub ), the echoed nonce, the selected Elliptic
curve, the Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman public key 1
Ci Ci
(point QCi
1 (x, y) = d1 G ), and the signature of the
registration key, the ECDH key, the ephemeral pub-
lic key, the challenge, and the echoed nonce signed
using the controller’s long-term private key (σreg,C =
C
[k reg||QCi
) to the
1 (x, y)||Lpri ||challenge||N onv ]LC
pri,LT
node i. Note that, in previous steps, both the controller
and the particular node will verify the signatures by ob-
taining the corresponding long-term public keys from the
blockchain.
Derived key = KDF (Secret key||Secret seed
||Salt||Context)
(1)
The ECDH public key of entity r (Qr ) refers to the pub-
lic key shared as Qr = dr G, where G is the base point
(generator) of the elliptic curve and dr is r’s private scalar.
We notate an encryption key using K, a digital signature
public key using Lpub , a digital signature private key using
Lpri , and an HMAC key using M. To notate signature,
we use σ = [arguments]L , use G = e({arguments}, K) for
encrypting the arguments using the encryption key K, let
h = hash(arguments) denote the cryptographic hash, and
use H = HM AC(M, arguments) to denote the HMAC
computed for arguments using the key M.
3.3.4. Registration and authentication module
The process flow of the proposed registration and au-
thentication module is depicted in Fig. 4.
Registration phase:
PoW solution and key
derivation. Then, the node solves the PoW work
puzzle and computes the response using its global Po-
seidon HMAC (keyed Poseidon-based hashing [27] –
HPCi = HM ACP oseidon (MCi
P oseidon , challenge response))
Ci
key (MCi
=
KDF (KDHSC
||dCi
2 ||secret seed
P oseidon
Ci
Ci
||node ID||salt||context); KDHSC
=
dCi
2 Q1 (x, y)),
derives its digital signature public key using the
registration key given by the controller through
Registration and authentication process overview.
All nodes need to register with the controller initially,
and for any subsequent communication session, the nodes
need to authenticate themselves. All entities (controllers,
vehicles, and RSUs) need to be pre-registered with the
blockchain with a long-term public key in order to re-
duce registration phase man-in-the-middle and imper-
9{Lipub , Lipri }
=
KDF key pair(algorithm, k reg
||secret seed||salt||node id||context).
i
i
Ci
[GKyber,ASCON
||GKyber,HM
AC ||HM AC(KDHSC ,
i
i
) will be sent to the
GKyber,ASCON
||GKyber,HM
AC ]LC
pri
corresponding node.
Registration phase: Zero-Knowledge Proof and
blockchain storage. The node computes the zero-
knowledge proof (ZKP-STARK–πi ; which proves that the
Ci
node knows private values: dCi
2 and MP oseidon without re-
vealing them at all), and stores it in the blockchain (to pre-
vent possible interception of the global Poseidon HMAC
key in initial unencrypted communication) along with the
node’s digital signature FALCON 1024 public key (Lipub –
security attribute) and node id.
Registration phase: rationale for cryptographic
choices in key delivery. Note that ASCON-128 is uti-
lized for downlink encryption to prevent interception of
sensitive node IDs, port IDs, and HMAC keys by the
attackers and thus contribute to reducing link fabrica-
tion attacks. Similarly, ECDH-derived key-based AES-
256 is utilized for uplink encryption to reduce exposure of
sensitive node IDs and port IDs, leading to link fabrica-
tion attacks, which can be amplified under the possibility
of breaking post-quantum digital signatures under side-
channel attacks. Note that, two separate symmetric keys
using two different encryption algorithms are used for the
uplink (packet in and authentication requests) and down-
link (packet out and HMAC key issuing) communication,
adhering to the NIST 800-57 recommendation for key man-
agement [28] in order to drive towards perfect forward se-
crecy. Global HMAC-SHA-256 will be utilized to create
an HMAC for each node’s location to reduce tampering
of node locations by intermediate data-collecting (agent)
nodes.
Registration phase:
node’s final message to
controller. After that, it sends the global Posei-
don HMAC (HPCi ), the signature of ZKP, the node
ID, the Kyber public key, and the DH public key
with the HMAC of them produced using the shared
i
Diffie-Hellman secret key, which is signed (σZKP,DH
=
Ci
Ci
i||i
(x,
y)||K
||HM
AC(K
,
π
[π i||i||QCi
2
DHSC
pub,kyber
Ci
||QCi
2 (x, y)||Kpub,kyber )]Li ) using the node’s quantum-
resistant digital signature FALCON 1024 private key,
Elliptic Curve Diffie Hellman (ECDH)-256 public key 2
Ci Ci
(Point QCi
2 (x, y) = d2 G ), and quantum-resistant en-
Ci
cryption CRYSTALS-Kyber1024 public key (Kpub,kyber
)
Ci
derived using KDF given in (1) with KDHSC as the
secret key, back to the controller (using uplink in control
channel).
Registration phase: key security properties and
advantages. Note that the proposed node registration
technique is more secure than traditional authentication
techniques like Diffie-Hellman (DH) alone, as the latter
is vulnerable to man-in-the-middle attacks before encryp-
tion is established. However, during the node registra-
tion process, the ECDH-256 public keys are exchanged.
Furthermore, storing the ZKP of the hashed message in
the blockchain eliminates reliance on centralized servers
and enables tamper-proof verification. Thus, the proposed
technique is more suitable in the zero-trust architecture,
as traditional techniques assume some degree of trust.
Registration phase: controller verification and reg-
istration finalization. The controller validates the re-
sponse using the ZKP retrieved from the blockchain
(Here, the ZKP proof (πi ) is verified using public in-
Ci
Ci
puts: QCi
1 (x, y), Q2 (x, y), challenge response, HP , salt)
and register the node ID with its ports and add the times-
tamp to the blockchain, as shown in Fig. 4a. However,
the FALCON-1024 public key and ZKP-STARK should
only be accessible to the controller; therefore, we utilize
role-based access control for achieving that purpose (the
nodes with only the ”controller” role will be able to access
them). Moreover, all access control-related data are stored
in the blockchain using private data collections with the
controller and the corresponding node as private nodes.
Observe that at the end of registration, existing registra-
tion will be renewed or newly added if it does not exist
or deleted if a registration request is not received for a
certain period of time, and blockchain will be configured
accordingly.
Authentication phase: overview and latency ben-
efits. As the same ZKP-STARK (π i) and global Posei-
don HMAC (HPCi ) can be reused for subsequent authen-
tication, it simplifies the authentication process and thus
reduces latency compared to traditional approaches that
require high computational demands. This is important,
as vehicular networks are delay sensitive. Before authenti-
cation (during long-term propagation of the network), the
reputation (r) score and location (l) of the node (behav-
ioral attributes) will be stored in the blockchain (refer to
Algorithm 2 given later).
Registration phase: secure symmetric key deliv-
ery. After that, a Kyber 1024 encrypted ASCON-128
Ci
symmetric key (KASCON
–derived using KDF given
Ci
in (1) with KDHSC as the secret key) with 128-bit
i
Ci
Ci
nonce (Gkyber,ASCON
= e(KASCON
||nonce, Kpri,kyber
))
and Kyber 1024 encrypted global HMAC-SHA-256
i
Ci
key (Gkyber,HM
= e(MiGlobal , Kpri,kyber
)), and
AC
i
their signature with integrity check (σkeys,down
=
Authentication phase:
Stage 1 – Requesting
Session HMAC Key 2. During subsequent au-
thentication stage 1, the ZKP (π j) will be retrieved
from the blockchain and verified using the received
cryptographically secured global Poseidon HMAC
Cj
Cj
ijp
(GCj
=
pos = e(HP , KDHSC )), session HMAC 1 (H1
10HM AC(Mijp
1 , i||j||p)), signature of ZKP and Diffie-
j
Hellman key (σZKP,DH
), and signature of i, j, p, HMAC1
node will be removed from the particular blockchain con-
sortium. Note that registration update here means either
updating a too-old registration (to improve security, reg-
istration will be renewed with new credentials), new reg-
istration with a new controller, or deleting existing reg-
istration when the old controller is not reachable (when
the node’s ping request is not heard for a given time).
Therefore, the security of the authentication mechanism is
very strong, as it is a blockchain-based session, signature,
attribute, role, and encryption combined authentication
mechanism.
′
ijpp
ijp
ijp
(σHM
AC1 = [i||j||p||H1 ]Li ) by sending Guplink,1 =
′
j
ijp
ijp
ijpp
e(i||j||p||p′ ||H1ijp ||σZKP,DH
||σHM
(x, y)
AC1 ||σC ||Q2
j
ijp
j
ijp
′
||HM AC(MGlobal , i||j||p||p ||H1 ||σZKP,DH ||σHM AC1
′
ijp
Cj
||σC
||Qijpp
(x, y)), KDHSC
).
2
Authentication phase: Stage 2 – packet in Sub-
mission. In authentication stage 2, the previous content
along with attributes obtained from the blockchain
′
(rj , lj ), encrypted attributes and identifiers (Gijpp
uplink,2 =
′
′
′
′
j
ijpp
ijpp
e(tijpp ||rj ||lj ||i||j||p||p′ ||H2ijpp ||σZKP,DH
||σHM
||
AC2 ||σC
′
′
j
HM AC (MjGlobal , tijpp ||rj ||lj ||i||j||p||p′ ||H2ijpp ||σZKP,DH
||
′
′
′
ijpp
ijpp
Cj
σHM
), KDHSC
)), and HMAC2 (H2ijpp =
AC2 ||σC
ijpp′ ijpp′
HM AC(M2 , t
||rj ||lj ||i||j||p||p′ ||H1ijp ))
are
unicasted, and the signature of HMAC and IDs
ijpp′
ijpp′
′
(σHM
]Lj ) are utilized for au-
AC2 = [i||j||p||p ||H2
thentication as shown in Fig. 4b.
Authentication phase: attribute- and role-based ac-
cess control. Note that –encrypted authentication re-
′
quest time (tijpp -environment attribute), reputation and
location (rj , lj -behavioral attributes), and link node IDs
and port IDs (i, j, p, p′ -user attributes)– act as attributes
in the proposed authentication for attribute-based access
control. Note that in the registration and authentication
smart contract, the node that has the role ”controller”
will be able to retrieve attributes and ZKPs from the
blockchain for authentication, implementing a version of
role-based access control.
Registration and Authentication Smart Contract
(RASC). The algorithm of the Registration and Authen-
tication Smart Contract (RASC) is shown in Algorithm 1.
Note that as shown in Algorithm 1, the RASC runs in
the authenticating node and the controller. Note that the
RASC algorithm stores ZKP and the node’s FALCON-
1024 digital signature public key in blockchain as private
data collections, as they do not form a part of a link dis-
covery cycle explicitly. So, at the node, it retrieves the
location and reputation of the particular node. On the
other hand, at the controller, it extracts the link’s repu-
tation and location information from the blockchain and
provides it to the client application. As per the verifica-
tions done at the client, it will authenticate the node based
on verification results, as described before. At the end, af-
ter authentication, node IDs, port IDs, and timestamps
are updated in the blockchain as private data once at the
end of reinforcement learning (to reduce latency in a link
discovery process).
3.3.5. LLALDI module
Expected link state prediction. Let N , Z, ZRSU , and
ZV EH be the total nodes and the node ID sets of all nodes,
RSUs, and vehicles, respectively. Let the location tracking
period and frequency be TL and HL , respectively. Let B t
be the tensor that represents the discovered link state at
t
t
time t. At time t for node i, the location is (lxi
, lyi
).
It is a large waste of network resources to send LLDP
packets for all the nodes (no need to discover links if it is
highly probable that a link state won’t change). Instead,
we do the location monitoring at HL frequency and derive
possible link expirations or new links. Let D be a ma-
trix containing the expected q
link state between all nodes,
t
t − lt )2 + (lt − lt )2 )],
where Dij
= [U0 (Rmax − σ − (lxi
xj
yi
yj
Authentication phase: integration with link discov-
ery. For a given link discovery, authentication takes place
at two instances (stages). First, in the first stage, the
second node needs to authenticate itself to request a sec-
′
ond session HMAC key (Mijpp
) using global Poseidon
2
j
), and ses-
j),
signature
(σZKP,DH
HMAC (GCj
),
ZKP
(π
pos
ijp
sion HMAC 1 (H1 ). Then, in the second stage, the same
node should authenticate itself when it sends the packet in
to the controller. Thus, when a packet in is received at the
controller, using the registration and authentication smart
contract, it can verify that the link authentication for the
request of the second HMAC key is not expired, the de-
crypted reputations matched, two nodes are in range, and
the node and port IDs matched in addition to verifications
related to authentication stage 1.
while U0 (x) is the unit step function at step 0, while Rmax
is the average of maximum transmission distance at the
transmission power level and σ is its standard deviation.
It is calculated for V2V (DSRC) using a log-distance prop-
agation loss model considering shadowing effects, as per
previous studies [20]. However, link state cannot be ex-
actly predicted by distance, while it can only be used as
an approximation. That’s because in a highly dynamic
network like vehicular networks, link direction, transmis-
sion power, link quality, etc., can be changed [21].
Periodic registration update in dynamic networks.
As the vehicular network is dynamic, the nodes can move
out of a given consortium and into new consortiums. To
check the preceding condition, the nodes need to periodi-
cally contact the available trusted controllers and update
registration, and the blockchain needs to be updated ac-
cordingly. If node registration with a controller fails, that
11Algorithm 1 Registration and Authentication Smart Contract (RASC).
1: procedure RASC(Con ID, Cur N ID, Cur P ID, Oth N ID, Oth P ID, cur T S, H2 T S, Rep sta, Loc sta, ID sta, H mat,
ZKP ver, DS P K, ZKP , Ope, Sig ver, RL f in)
if (Req ID==Con ID)&& (Ope == GetStates) then
: { BC.GetReput(Cur N ID,
Return {loc
:
{BC.GetLoc(Cur N ID, BC.GetLoc(Oth N ID}, rep
BC.GetReput(Oth N ID}, ZKP : BC.GetP riDatZKP (Cur N ID), DS P K : BC.GetP riDatDS(Cur N ID)}
4:
end if
5:
if (Req ID==Con ID) then
6:
Aut T S ← BC.GetP riT imestamp(Cur N ID, Oth N ID, Cur P ID, Oth P ID)
7:
t exp ← Compare(cur T S, H2 T S, Auth T S)
8:
if ((Ope == Auth s1)&&(H mat==true) && (ZKP ver==true))OR((Ope == Auth s2)&&(Rep sta
mat)&&(Loc sta==true)&&(ID sta==true)&&(t exp==false)&&(H mat==true) &&(Sig ver)&& (ZKP ver==true))
then
9:
Auth ← true
10:
if (RL f in) && (Auth expired) then
11:
BC.P utP riT S(Cur N ID, Oth N ID, Cur P ID, Oth P ID, cur T S)
12:
end if
13:
else
14:
Auth ← f alse
15:
end if
16:
Return {auth : Auth}
17:
end if
18:
if (Req ID==Cur N ID)&&((Ope == GetStates)) then
19:
Reputation ← BC.GetReput(Cur N ID)
20:
Location ← BC.GetLoc(Cur N ID)
21:
Return {loc : Location, rep : Reputation}
22:
end if
23:
if (Req ID==Cur N ID)&&(Ope == Reg) then
24:
BC.P utP riDatZKP (Cur N ID, ZKP )
25:
BC.P utP riDatDS P K(Cur N ID, DS P K)
26:
Return {reg : true}
27:
end if
28: end procedure
2:
3:
Deriving non-malicious and suspicious link sets.
Then, we get an expected link state difference matrix
(I t = Dt − D(t−1) ) and extract a link discovery-wise non-
t
malicious set P = {i, j} where Iij
= 0, and a set of com-
t
pletely or partially malicious Q = {i, j} irrespective of Iij
p
p
to unicast LLDP (Eij = 1) or broadcast LLDP (Fi = 1)
packet based on whether node i is an RSU/slow-moving
vehicle or a fast-moving vehicle, respectively. Note that
even though the original LLDP in SDN is broadcast, as
we utilize adaptive link discovery, we use unicast under
low-link changing probability in order to reduce the over-
all link discovery overhead. The flow chart for this process
is shown in Fig. 5.
Figure 5: Flow chart for LLALDI module.
Summary of notations of BQLLDA. A summary of
the notations used in the proposed BQLLDA mitigation
scheme is shown in Table 2.
Note that if a reported location is found to be malicious
in any of the below-mentioned ways, we approximate the
node’s real location by inspecting its non-malicious neigh-
bors from the discovered links and getting their average
location. If there are no non-malicious neighbors, the ma-
licious location will not be updated. We store the verified
location of each node in the blockchain to use it as an
attribute in authentication.
3.3.6. Location verification and behavioral monitoring
Overview of multi-layer location defense. Fabri-
cated locations can pose a huge threat to the link discovery
service, as they can contribute to all attacks discussed. At
HL frequency, first, each node should broadcast its present
location (lxt , lyt ). Then, the agent nodes will aggregate the
received location with their own location and unicast to
the controller. We use the data collection optimization
model proposed in research [22] to collect location data.
Step 1: inter-aggregate location verification. First,
a data-aggregating node can check whether the location
sent from a neighbor is falsified or not by comparing the
12Table 2: Notations utilized in the proposed BQLLDA
mitigation scheme.
Notation
N, Z,
ZRSU , ZV EH
TL , H L
B t , Dt , I t ,
D ′ t, I ′
t
t
lxi
, lyi
P, Q, R
Rmax , σ, U′
p
Eij
, Fip
p
Sij
, ap
ij ,
p
Wij
µ1 , µ2 , µ3
Tmax ,
wsuspicion ,
p
λp
ij , tij
Description
Node number of nodes, Node ID set of all nodes, node
ID set of RSUs, and node ID set of vehicles, respec-
tively
Location tracking period, location tracking frequency
Discovered link state tensor at time t, Expected link
state matrix, expected link state difference matrix,
immediate real link state tensor, and immediate real
link state difference tensor, respectively
x coordinate of node i at time t, and y coordinate of
node i at time t, respectively
Non-malicious link set, Malicious link set, LLDP
dropping node set
average of maximum transmission distance, standard
deviation of maximum transmission distance, and
unit step function at step 0, respectively
Tensor to track unicasting LLDP, matrix to track
broadcasting LLDP, respectively
State, action, and reward for link i − j through port
p, respectively
Precedence coefficient of suspicion, LLDP delivery,
and LLDP latency, respectively
Maximum expected latency, reward for the link’s sus-
picious behavior, event of LLDP delivery for link i − j
through port p, LLDP latency for link i − j through
port p, respectively
Figure 6: Block diagram for location verification & be-
havioral monitoring.
q
t
t
t − l l )2 + (lt − l l )2 ≤ (1 + µ
(lxj
dis )(Vmax TE +
yj
yj
xj
1
2
Amax TE ) (3)
2
In (3), µdis ≥ 0 is the tolerance for distance, tl repre-
sents the last known non-malicious time step, TE repre-
sents time elapsed since then, Vmax is maximum feasible
node velocity, and Amax is maximum node acceleration.
If (3) does not hold true, such a node’s reputation will go
down drastically and can be deemed malicious if the repu-
tation is less than a threshold. We represent the malicious
node set by M . The location verification and behavioral
monitoring block diagram is shown in Fig. 6.
Note that in Fig. 6, ’flag’ refers to contributing to the
reputation reduction of a given node whose location has
been mismatched or falsely identified. However, we uti-
lize a distributed approach for node reputation manage-
ment using a permissioned blockchain, where the endorser
nodes (controllers and aggregators) submit their own rep-
utation scores, whose scores will be weighted based on the
endorser’s trust score to calculate the overall score. Note
that we incentivize endorsers by rewarding them with a
positive reward for aligning with the majority decision.
received location with its own location, as given in (2),
to update the reputation score of node j. Then, the con-
troller will verify whether the locations corresponding to
node IDs received from all aggregated packets are the same
(check if an aggregated node has a falsified location). Note
that due to the computation of HMAC-SHA-256 for each
location by each node, if a data-aggregating node changes
the location of another node maliciously, it can be detected
by the controller. In this manner, the controller can iden-
tify the nodes that have different locations for the same
node ID, and then those nodes that aggregated the data’s
reputation score in the permissioned blockchain will go
down and may be flagged as malicious if the reputation
is below a threshold after blockchain endorsement policy-
driven consensus. Note that the first stage of defense is
the HMAC-SHA-256, and if it passes for all i (aggregat-
ing node) and neighbor node (j), the condition in (2) is
checked for a neighbor node j among different aggregates.
Among aggregates, if a majority of the tests fail, node j’s
location is probably malicious.
BWTRCB algorithm. Algorithm 2 provides the
Blockchain-based Weighted endorser Trust-driven node
Reputation and Consensus-based Blacklisting (BWTRCB)
algorithm.
Step 2 intra-aggregate location verification. Next,
if an aggregating node in a link has falsified its own lo-
cation, we can check the condition in (2) for all j ∈ N
in the aggregate received. Here, i is the node ID of the
aggregated node. If (2) does not hold for the majority of
non-malicious j of the aggregate, node i’s reputation score
will go down and may be flagged malicious if the score is
below a threshold.
q
t − lt )2 + (lt − lt )2 ≥ 0
(2)
Rmax − σ − (lxi
xj
yi
yj
BWTRCB: Function descriptions. Note that an en-
dorser in Algorithm 2 is a controller or a data aggrega-
tion node; ”GetT rustScr” is a function to get the trust
score of a endorser; ”CalcLocRepu” is a function to cal-
culate the reputation score of a given node ID for a re-
ported location; ”CalcF loodRepu” is a function to calcu-
late the reputation score of a given node ID for a given
number of received duplicate packets; ”CalcF abricRepu”
is a function to calculate the reputation score of a given
node ID for a given number of received fabricated pack-
ets; ”CalcReplayRepu” is a function to calculate the rep-
utation score of a given node ID for a given number
of received replayed packets; ”CalcLLDP Drop Repu” is
a function to calculate the reputation score of a given
Step 3: Node behavioral monitoring. For this, we
check whether (3) holds true or not to assess the node’s
dynamic behavior with respect to location for every node
that passes the previous verification steps.
13Algorithm 2 Blockchain-based Weighted endorser Trust-driven node Reputation and Consensus-based Blacklisting (BWTRCB).
1: procedure BWTRCB(N ode ID, M atched LLDP, Rep loca, Dup count, F ab count, Replay count, Endorsers, N eighbors, Controllers)
2:
F in LLDP Drop rep chan ← 0, T ot wei ← 0, i ← 0
3:
for each Endo in N eighbors, Controllers do
4:
T rust wei ← Blockchain.GetT rustScr(Endo)
5:
LLDP Drop scr ← Endo.CalcLLDP Drop Repu(N ode ID, M atched LLDP [i])
6:
F in LLDP Drop rep chan ← F in LLDP Drop rep chan + (T rust wei ∗ LLDP Drop scr)
7:
T ot wei ← T ot wei + T rust wei, i + +
8:
end for
Drop rep chan
9:
Repu chan ← F in LLDP
abs(T ot wei)
10:
11:
12:
13:
14:
15:
16:
17:
18:
19:
20:
21:
22:
23:
24:
25:
26:
27:
28:
29:
30:
31:
Reput[N ode ID] ← Blockchain.GetLLDP Drop Reput(N ode ID) + Repu chan
Blockchain.U pd LLDP Drop Reput(N ode ID, Reput[N ode ID])
if Reput[N ode ID] < LLDP Drop Blacklist thresh then
BLS1 ← Blockchain.GetConsBlacklist LLDP Drop N ode(N ode ID)
end if
for each Endo in N eighbors, Controllers do
Blockchain.RewardEndorser(Endo, N ode ID, BLS1)
end for
F in loc rep chan ← 0, F in loc chan ← 0, F in f lood rep chan ← 0, F in f abric rep chan ← 0,
F in replay rep chan ← 0, T ot wei ← 0, i ← 0, F in loc chan ← 0
for each Endo in Endorsers do
T rust wei ← Blockchain.GetT rustScr(Endo)
F in loc rep chan += (T rust wei ∗ Endo.CalcLocRepu(N ode ID, Rep loca[i]))
F in f lood rep chan += (T rust wei ∗ Endo.CalcF loodRepu(N ode ID, Dup count[i]))
F in f abric rep chan += (T rust wei ∗ Endo.CalcF abricRepu(N ode ID, F ab count[i]))
F in replay rep chan += (T rust wei ∗ Endo.CalcReplayRepu(N ode ID, Replay count[i]))
F in loc rep chan ← F in loc rep chan + (T rust wei ∗ Location scr)
F in loc chan ← F in loc chan + (T rust wei ∗ Rep loca[i])
T ot wei ← T ot wei + T rust wei, i + +
end for
loc rep chan
f lood rep chan
f abric rep chan
replay rep chan
Repu chan ← Average( F in
+ F inabs(T
+ F in abs(T
+ F in abs(T
)
abs(T ot wei)
ot wei)
ot wei)
ot wei)
in loc chan
Loca chan ← Fabs(T
ot wei)
loc rep chan
Loca rep chan ← F in
abs(T ot wei)
33:
Reput[N ode ID] ← Blockchain.GetReput(N ode ID) + Repu chan
34:
Blockchain.U pdReput(N ode ID, Reput[N ode ID])
35:
Location rep[N ode ID] ← Blockchain.GetLocRep(N ode ID) + Loca rep chan
36:
Blockchain.U pdLocatRep(N ode ID, Location rep[N ode ID])
37:
Blockchain.U pdLocat(N ode ID, Loca chan)
38:
if Reput[N ode ID] < Blacklist thresh then
39:
BLS2 ← Blockchain.GetConsBlacklistN ode(N ode ID)
40:
end if
41:
for each Endo in Endorsers do
42:
Blockchain.RewardEndorser(Endo, N ode ID, BLS2)
43:
end for
44: end procedure
32:
node ID when a matched LLDP packet is received or
not; ”U pd LLDP Drop Reput” is a function to update
the LLDP packet dropping reputation score of a given
node in the blockchain; ”GetLLDP Drop Reput” is a
function to get LLDP dropping node reputation from the
blockchain; ”U pdReput” is a function to update the repu-
tation score of a given node in the blockchain; ”U pdLocat”
is a function to update the location of a given node in
the blockchain; ”U pdLocatRep” is a function to update
the location reputation of a given node in the blockchain;
”GetReput” is a function to get node reputation from
the blockchain; ”GetLoc” is a function to get node lo-
cation from the blockchain; ”GetLocRep” is a function
to get node location reputation from the blockchain;
”GetConsBlacklistN ode” is a function to collect votes
for endorsement policy-driven consensus and then blacklist
the node if consensus is reached that the node is malicious;
”GetConsBlacklist LLDP Drop N ode” is a function to
collect votes for endorsement policy-driven consensus and
then blacklist the node if consensus is reached that the
node is malicious in terms of dropping LLDP packets; and
”RewardEndorser” is a function to reward or penalize a
endorser based on the reached consensus and store the up-
dated endorser’s trust score in the blockchain. Note that
in Algorithm 2, when updating the reputation score, we
set the reputation decrement for malicious behavior sig-
nificantly higher than the reputation increment for benign
behavior in order to prioritize detection of malicious be-
havior, as detection of the latter is important to mitigate
the LDAs.
14BWTRCB: Attack detection mechanisms. Note
that in the proposed link discovery technique, the fabri-
cated packets can be identified by mismatched digital sig-
natures and HMACs; replayed packets can be identified
by using expired HMACs; intentional dropping of LLDP
packets can be identified by tracking neighbors and con-
trollers that received the particular LLDP packet; and
flooded packets can be identified by duplicate digital sig-
natures.by total weight. Then, the blockchain’s reputation score
of the corresponding node will be updated, and if it goes
below a threshold, the node will be blacklisted. Also, the
location and location reputations will be updated in the
blockchain. Ultimately, each endorser will be rewarded in
agreement with the endorsement policy-driven consensus.
Thus, Algorithm 2 rewards endorsers for complying with
the consensus and data plane nodes for reporting correct
locations and not sending duplicate packets.
BWTRCB: Dual blacklisting strategy. We maintain
two blacklists for nodes: the LLDP drop blacklist to track
nodes that maliciously drop LLDP packets and another
blacklist for nodes that behave maliciously by falsifying lo-
cations, fabricating LLDP packets, replaying LLDP pack-
ets, and flooding LLDP packets. The malicious functions
of the second blacklist can be prevented by secure ap-
proaches used in the proposed technique. However, mali-
cious LLDP dropping cannot be prevented; thus, we main-
tain a separate blacklist to monitor it and amend the link
discovery process during Q-learning, when such nodes are
detected (refer to Algorithm 4).Step 4: Controller behavioral monitoring. Finally,
after the link discovery service, we evaluate the link dis-
covery of the controller against poisoning, flooding, and
replay attacks by it through cross-endorsing with the link
state of a subset of non-malicious nodes. In this technique,
we first select a percentage of random non-malicious nodes
in the network and broadcast a HELLO packet. When a
node receives the HELLO packet, it sends the acknowledg-
ment to the sender that it received the packet, and then
the total number of packet out that it has received for the
link in the last link discovery service will be written to the
blockchain. From the discovered link state tensor (B) of
the controller, we can inspect the number and node IDs of
existing links from the given node.
BWTRCB: Processing LLDP packet dropping rep-
utation. As shown in Algorithm 2, first, nodes’ reputa-
tions for LLDP packet dropping will be updated. Here, the
endorsers will be possible neighbors of the node (found by
inspecting the distance matrix) and controllers. Here, the
reputation will be increased if a matched LLDP packet is
received by the endorsers or otherwise decreased, weighted
with the endorser’s trust. Finally, if endorsement policy-
driven consensus is reached after the node reputation
threshold decreases below a specified value, then the node
will be blacklisted as an LLDP dropping node.
BCTES Algorithm. Then, we engage those received
nodes as endorsers in the Blockchain-based Controller
Trust Evaluation and Switching (BCTES) algorithm given
in Algorithm 3. Moreover, to check whether the controller
attempts to flood the network, we inspect the packet out
count received by each endorser node weighted by their
trust scores and get consensus from the endorsers to re-
ward or penalize the controller.
As shown in Algorithm 3, it takes the controller ID,
broadcasting node ID, expected receiver node IDs, and
actually received node ID set as inputs. It first calculates
the trust score sum of the expected received nodes and the
expected maximum packet out sum of endorsers. Then it
calculates the endorsement policy-driven consensus count
as the sum of the trust score weight of the actually received
nodes. Further, it calculates the packet out count as the
trust score weighted sum of packet out packets received by
each endorser. After that, it evaluates whether the con-
sensus count is greater than 2/3 of the trust score and
P out count is greater than 2/3 of the packet sum and less
than the packet sum, taking into account the effect of the
Byzantine faults. If the preceding condition is satisfied,
the controller’s trust score will be increased or otherwise
decreased. The preceding condition makes sure that the
controller will be rewarded when it does not attempt link
fabrication, vanishing, replay, or flooding attacks. Finally,
if the controller’s trust score goes below a specified thresh-
old (becomes untrusted), the nodes that were governed by
the controller will be allocated to the closest trusted con-
troller, as per previous studies [23].
BWTRCB: Processing location and other attack
reputation. After that, it begins updating the reputation
of nodes, considering location falsification, fabrication, re-
play, and flooding attempts. For each endorser, first, a
trust weight is obtained, and then an endorsement score is
calculated based on the reported location (correctly re-
ported locations will be rewarded), as specified in the
previous section. Then, an endorsement score for flood-
ing will be calculated based on the number of duplicate
packets received (if duplicates are received, the endorse-
ment score will be low). Similarly, endorsement scores for
link fabrication attempts (by calculating a reputation score
based on the number of fabricated packets received) and
replay attempts (by calculating a reputation score based
on the number of replayed packets received). Then each
of the above endorsement scores will be weighted by the
endorser’s trust score, and their cumulative sum is ob-
tained. Also, the location is tracked and weighted with
the endorser’s trust. Finally, after iterating through all en-
dorsers, a final reputation change is obtained by obtaining
the average of all the reputation scores. Location change
is also computed by dividing the sum of weighted locations
15Algorithm 3 Blockchain-based Controller Trust Evaluation and Switching (BCTES).
1: procedure BCTE(Controller ID, Consortium ID, Broad ID, Exp Rec IDs, Rec IDs)
2:
Consensus count ← 0, T rust sum ← sum(Blockchain.GetT rstScr(Exp Rec IDs))
3:
P out count ← 0, P acket sum ← J ∗ A ∗ count(Rec IDs)
4:
for each Endo in Rec IDs do
5:
W eight ← Blockchain.GetT rustScr(Endo)
6:
Consensus count ← Consensus count + W eight
7:
P out ← Blockchain.GetP out(Broad ID, Endo)
8:
P out count ← P out count + W eight ∗ P out
9:
end for
10:
if (Consensus count ≥ 23 T rust sum) and ((P out count ≥ 32 P acket sum)&&(P out count ≤ P acket sum)) then
11:
Blockchain.RewardController(Controller ID)
12:
else
13:
Blockchain.P enalizeController(Controller ID)
14:
end if
15:
if Blockchain.GetT rustScr(Controller ID) < T rust threshold then
16:
Best controller ← Blockchain.GetN earestT rusted controller(Consortium ID, Controller ID)
17:
Blockchain.Change controller(Consortium ID, Best controller)
18:
end if
19: end procedure
3.3.7. State determination
Link state determination follows priority logic: After the
link discovery service using LLDP, at the controller, if the
protocol specifies a link exists, then we check (1) if the im-
p
mediate real link state tensor (D′ ij == 1) and immediate
p
real link state difference tensor (I ′ ij == 0) to conclude
p
== 1). (2) If the
that link state as conf irmed on (Sij
p
protocol specifies the link as vanished and if (D′ ij == 0)
′p
and (I ij == 0), then the link state is conf irmed of f
p
(Sij
== 0), where i and j are link discovery-wise non-
malicious. Moreover, if the expected link state is changed
p
(I ′ ij ! = 0), the link state will be either (3) normal of f
p
(Sij == 2) if LLDP is not received or (4) normal on
p
(Sij
== 3) if LLDP is received. However, if i or j is
link discovery-wise malicious or the LLDP reception status
p
contradicts with D′ ij , the link will be flagged suspicious
p
p
as (5) suspicious of f (Sij
== 4) when D′ ij == o or (6)
p
suspicious on (Sij
== 5) otherwise. The flow chart for
state determination is shown in Fig. 7. Note that if the
LLDP packet is not transmitted, then the state will be de-
termined by mapping Q values to the states by inspecting
the closest state to the Q-value using (8) given later.
Figure 7: Flow chart for state determination module.
Pi =
3.3.8. Packet limiting with signature matching
We prevent the flooding link discovery attacks launched
using a large quantity of packets (attack 2) by limiting the
maximum amount of distinct digital signature P acket out
transmitted and P acket in received to JAN 2 , P acket out
received and P acket in transmitted limited to JAN , and
intermediate link discovery packets (Pi ) that can be sent
by a vehicle or an RSU in the data plane within a time
period of TL , as in (4). Thus, excess identical packets sent
by a malicious host will be discarded by a Non-Malicious
(NM) receiver.



JA,


;if i is a fast-moving vehicle
JAN
;if i is a LD-wise malicious RSU



JA(1 + µpac ) PN
t
j=1 Dij
;i is a RSU/slow vehicle, j is NM
(4)
In (4), µpac is the tolerance for the number of pack-
ets, A is the number of ports, and J is the number of
Q-learning iterations. However, packet limiting is only
possible in an uncompromised/non-malicious host. Thus,
we use the blockchain smart contracts Algorithm 2 to
identify and penalize data plane flooding nodes, while we
use Algorithm 3 to penalize controllers that attempt to
flood. Pi = JA for fast-moving vehicles, where broad-
cast LLDP (Fip = 1) discovers all neighbors simultane-
ously, requiring J iterations
ports. For RSUs, uni-
PN × A
t
cast LLDP requires JA j=1 Dij
packets as each neigh-
16(a) Block diagram for the proposed link discovery service mod- (b) Sequence diagram of packet flow in proposed link discovery.
ule.
Figure 8: Block and sequence diagram of link discovery in the proposed framework.
bor receives targeted discovery,P
hence the distance-matrix-
N
t
.
weighted bound JA(1 + µpac ) j=1 DijIDs (e.g., i, j, p0 , p1 , i, j, p0 , p2 ) can be detected at the
controller.
3.3.9. Digital signature, hashing, and controller validation
Proposed link discovery sequence and flow dia-
grams. The block diagram for the proposed link discov-
ery service is shown in Fig. 8a, while Fig. 8b shows the
sequence of packet flow with cryptographic notations.Reverse LLDP and port mirror inspection. Then,
we send a reverse LLDP through j in all ports and lis-
ten for the packet in, and in such an instance, only a
response from the legitimate port will be heard. In or-
der to verify the ports through which the packet in of
the reverse LLDP was transmitted and received, the port
mirrors of nodes i and j with traced port IDs can be in-
spected. Similar to ERSPAN, the IEEE 802.11p trace
sources at the MAC layer will add the node ID and port
ID to the mirror as a header. Note that we send the
HMAC-SHA-256 HMAC of the packet tagged port mirrors
Cycle-based digital signatures for packet out pro-
tection. To mitigate attacks 3 and 5 (link fabrication
and link vanishing), we use two steps. First, the in-
tegrity and authenticity of the LLDP packets are pro-
tected by using Digital Signature (DS) [24] with hashing
(H0ijp = HM AC(Mijp
0 , i||j||p)), where the LLDP packet
ijp
is digitally signed (σLLDP
= [i||j||p||H0ijp ]Lpri,C ) by the
controller using an RSA-2048 secret key (LC ), while any
node (vehicles, RSUs, and the controller itself) can use an
RSA-2048 public key (Lpub,C ) to verify its authenticity.
To prevent an attacker from stealing and using the secret
keys of the controller, we encrypt using AES-256 and store
the digital signature’s secret key, and DS public and pri-
vate key pairs (Lpri,C , Lpub,C ) are issued for each new cycle
(thus, quantum-resistant digital signature is not required
for cycle-based digital signature). It is highly unlikely for
an attacker to know about the secret key of the controller
since it is encrypted and time-limited. This makes sure
that link discovery packets (packet out) cannot be fabri-
cated.
′
Np
ji
of each node j (HRev,j
= HM AC(Mijpp
, j||i || pq ρq ))
2
q=1
ji
and i (HRev,i
= HM AC(Mijp
1 , j||i ||q,r pq ρq pr γr )) to au-
thenticate the mirrored packet tracing of a given node be-
fore it is accepted by the controller. Here, ρq is the event
that the packet is transmitted by port pq , while γq is the
event that it is received from port pq . So, then, the fake
ports can be identified and blocked.
3.3.10. Strategies to mitigate attack 4
Time-Limited
Session
HMACs. To
prevent
attack 4, we propose an approach where time-
limited session HMACs (HMAC-SHA-256) [25] se-
ijpp′
cret keys (Mijp
) are issued by the con-
1 , M2
troller. These HMAC secret keys are encrypted and
unicasted to the corresponding node (Gijp
=
Down,1
ijp
ijp
ijp
C
i
e(i||j||p||M1 ||Lpub ||σC ||HM AC(MGlobal , i||j||p||M1
Protection against packet in fabrication and port
spoofing. Moreover, to prevent packet in from being fab-
ijpp′
ricated, we embed the FALCON-1024 signature (σHM
AC2 )
ijpp′
and HMAC 2 (H2 )) of the port and node IDs. How-
ever, we find that still, there is a possibility to deceive
the controller with an incorrect fabricated port ID (p′ ) of
the packet in as digital signatures (FALCON-1024) are is-
sued on a per-node basis. In such a case, duplicate port
′
′
ijpp
ijp
ijpp
Ci
′
||LC
pub ||σC ), KASCON ), GDown,2 = e(i||j||p||p ||M2
′
′
j
ijpp
ijpp
′
||LC
||Qijp
1 (x, y)||HM AC(MGlobal , i||j||p||p ||M2
pub ||σC
′
ijpp
Cj
||LC
||Qijp
1 (x, y)), KASCON )) in order to make
pub ||σC
sure that only the corresponding node is able to create
a valid HMAC that can be validated at the controller
within a given time frame, reducing the success of replay
17attacks.
the controller will send encrypted identifiers and signature
′
ijpp′
(σC
== [i||j||p||p′ ]LC ) with HMAC (Gijpp
Down,2 ) back to
node j. The controller will also, at the same time, encrypt
and unicast the received ECDH public key of node j for
link i − j through ports p − p′ back to node i (GPCiK,j,ijpp′ =
packet out construction and transmission to node
i. Note that raw data of the proposed packet out struc-
ture are the session HMAC 1 secret key (Mijp
1 ), the
controller’s RSA-2048 digital signature public key (LC
pub ),
node IDs (i, j), and port IDs (p). First, it digitally signs
the precedingly mentioned raw data of the packet out
ijp
(σC
= [i||j||p||Mijp
). Then, the controller encrypts
1 ]LC
pub
the node and port identifiers, the controller’s signature,
the controller’s digital signature public key, and session
HMAC 1’s secret key using ASCON-128 of packet out
(Gijp
Down,1 ). After that, this encrypted content is trans-
mitted as packet out to Node i. Node i decrypts it to
retrieve the raw data and verifies the packet out signature
using the controller’s DS public key.
′
′
Ci
e(Qijpp
(x, y)||HM AC(MiGlobal , Qijpp
(x, y)), KDHSC
)).
2
2
packet in construction and final submission.
Then, node j will add its MAC address and port
ID as destination ID (j) and destination port (p′ )
to the received packet from i, as part of the new
packet packet in. After that, using the received ses-
′
sion HMAC key 2 (Mijpp
), it will create HMAC 2
2
ijpp′
ijpp′ ijpp′
(H2
= HM AC(M2 , t
||rj ||lj ||i||j||p||p′ ||H1ijp )–
with timestamp, reputation, location, transmitter and
receiver node IDs, port IDs, and HMAC 1 as the message),
add its signature with receiver port ID, node ID, and
HMAC 2 as the message using the FALCON 1024 private
ijpp′
ijpp′
′
key (σHM
]Lj ), and embed it in the
AC2 = [i||j||p||p ||H2
packet in. It will also retrieve the node j’s reputation (rj )
and location (lj ) from the blockchain, add a timestamp
ijpp′
(tj ), along with the controller’s (σC
) and node i’s
ijp
(σHM
)
signatures,
and
embed
them
in
the packet in
AC1
′
with integrity protection and encrypt (Gijpp
=
uplink,2
Intermediate
LLDP
packet
forwarding
by
node i. Then, it embeds the session HMAC 1
(H1ijp = HM AC(Mijp
1 , i||j||p)–the message for ses-
sion HMAC 1 is source i and destination j node
IDs and port ID of node i) and the signature
ijp
ijp
(σHM
AC1 = [i||j||p||H1 ]Li –the message for the sig-
nature is node IDs of node i and j, port number, and
HMAC 1), raw payload data (node ID and port ID) into
the controller’s digitally signed content, and transmits
′
′
j
ijpp′
ijpp′
ijp
ijp
ijp
e(tijpp ||rj ||lj ||i||j||p||p′ ||H2ijpp ||σZKP,DH
||σHM
it (Pijp = i||j||p||LC
AC2 ||σC
pub ||σC ||σHM AC1 ||H1 ) to node j if
′
′
j
i is an RSU/low-speed vehicle (or broadcasts it if i is a
||HM AC (MjGlobal , tijpp ||rj ||lj ||i||j||p||p′ ||H2ijpp ||σZKP,DH
fast-moving vehicle). At this time step, it also unicasts
ijpp′
ijpp′
Cj
||σHM AC2 ||σC ), KDHSC )) and send it to the controller.
the encrypted ECDH public key of node i (GPiCK,i,ijp =
ijp
ijp
i
Ci
e(Qijp
=
prevention and additional security guaran-
1 (x, y)||HM AC(MGlobal , Q1 (x, y)), KDHSC ); Q1 (x, y)Replay
′
ijp ij
d1 G ) for the communication between link i − j through
tees. The session HMAC secret key of node j (Mijpp
)
2
port p back to the controller. Thus, the intermediate
is strictly time-limited to the estimated uplink duration
proposed LLDP packet consists of raw node and port IDs
and a tolerance. Now, even if multiple attackers collabo-
ijp
(i, j, p), HMAC 1 (H1ijp ), node i’s signature (σHM
rate, it will be impossible for secret key 2 to be utilized
AC1 ),
ijp
for launching a replay attack by another node, as there
and the controller’s signature (σC = [i||j||p]LC ).
is no access for the second node using secret key 2 due
Node j authentication and session key 2 request.
to blockchain-driven authentication, where node IDs can-
Once this intermediate LLDP packet is received by node
not be changed, as they are registered in the permissioned
′
blockchain. In blockchain-driven stage 2 authentication,
j, it should request a session HMAC secret key 2 (Mijpp
)
2
the ZKP (πj ) of the global Poseidon HMAC of node j
from the controller after blockchain-driven stage 1 au-
retrieved from the blockchain, the signature of the ZKP
thentication. In blockchain-driven stage 1 authentication,
j
and DHSC (σZKP,DH
), the encrypted node location and
the ZKP (πj ) of the global Poseidon HMAC of node j
reputation attributes of node j, link identifiers, and times-
retrieved from the blockchain, the signature of ZKP and
′
j
shared symmetric key (σZKP,DH
) and the global Poseidon
tamps (Gijpp
uplink,2 ), the signed node IDs of nodes i and j,
ijpp′
HMAC of node j (HPCj ), the ECDH public key of node j
the port IDs in nodes i and j (σHM
AC2 ), and the times-
′
′
tamps retrieved from the blockchain, the ECDH-256 key-
G ij ) for the communication between
(Qijpp
(x, y) = dijpp
2
2
based AES-256 encrypted global Poseidon HMAC of node
link i − j through ports p − p′ , the controller’s signature
ijp
ijp
j (GCj
(σC
), and session HMAC 1 of node i (H1ijp ) are encrypted
pos ), and the session HMACs of nodes i (H1 ) and
′
ijpp
using the ECDH-256 key-based AES-256 and transmit-
j (H2 ) will be verified by the controller to authenti-
′
ted in uplink with integrity protection (Gijpp
cate node j for link i − j through specific ports. More-
uplink,1 =
j
ijp
ijp
ijpp′
over, it will be impossible for the same node to launch
e(i||j||p||p′ ||H1ijp ||σZKP,DH
||σHM
||σ
||Q
(x,
y)
2
AC1
C
a replay attack in the proposed system due to strict time
j
ijp
j
ijp
′
||HM AC(MGlobal , i||j||p||p ||H1 ||σZKP,DH ||σHM AC1
limitations and duplicate monitoring. Note that packet in
ijp
ijpp′
Cj
||σC ||Q2 (x, y)), KDHSC )) to be verified by the con-
is also authenticated using blockchain-driven authentica-
troller to authenticate node j for link i − j. After that,
tion. Moreover, to further mitigate eavesdropping, for an
18accepted packet in, a symmetric key for private communi-
cation between the nodes i and j is already derived using
the Diffie-Hellman key exchange, which occurred during
the link discovery process for subsequent secure communi-
cation.
The environment is deterministic:
executing ac-
tion a = send transmits an LLDP packet and ob-
serves delivery success/failure (λpij ) and latency (tpij ),
which—combined with expected link state from location
tracking—deterministically updates the next state s′ ac-
cording to the state determination rules (Fig. 7). No-send
(a = 0) keeps the current state unchanged. With discount
factor β = 0.01, Q-value updates depend mainly on imme-
diate reward.
3.3.11. Q-Learning
State-action space and adaptive epsilon-greedy
strategy. The state-action space is O(AN 2 ). Note that
the state of reinforcement learning is the link flag, as in
(5).
Q-Value update and convergence. Q-values are com-
puted using the well-known Bellman equation in rein-
forcement learning [26] with β = 0.01 to represent near-
independent links, as given in (9).
p
= link f lag; link f lag ∈ {0 − conf irmed of f,
Sij
1 − conf irmed on, 2 − normal of f, 3 − normal on (5)
p t
(Qpij )t = (1 − α)(Qpij )t + α[(Wij
) + β max (Qpjm )t+1 ]
, 4 − suspicious of f, 5 − suspicious on}
m∈G
The action is to send an LLDP packet or not, as given
in (6). Note that we use a state-adaptive epsilon-greedy
approach to select the action, where more link discov-
ery is preferred (more exploitation with a lower epsilon
value) when the link state is suspicious and less link dis-
covery (more exploration with a higher epsilon value) is
preferred when the link state is not suspicious. Here, state-
adaptive exploiting involves the selection of a particular
action based on an on-off state space adaptively by select-
ing an action that minimizes Q-value in non-malicious off
states/malicious on states, while selecting an action that
maximizes Q-value in non-malicious on states/malicious
off states. Here, exploration means random selection of
action to discover the link state or not.
We set β = 0.01(near − zero) rather than β = 0 be-
cause links sharing nodes exhibit weak coupling: if node j
is malicious in link i-j, adjacent link j-k warrants increased
verification. However, β remains small because vehicle mo-
bility (60 kmph) changes topology faster than multi-step
lookahead, and LLALDI already handles expected changes
via distance matrix Dt . This balances topological aware-
ness with computational efficiency O(N AvgDegreeJ).
In (9), α is the learning rate and β is the discount factor.
3.4. BQLLDA: The complete LDA mitigation algorithm
Algorithm 4 summarizes the algorithm for the
Blockchain and Q-Learning-driven approach to mitigate
Link Discovery Attacks (BQLLDA) framework. Let the
set of LLDP dropping blacklist nodes be represented by
R.
apij = discover; discover ∈ {0 − don′ t send, 1 − send}
(6)
Thus, in Q-learning [26], the agent (controller) needs to
learn a policy to confirm a link as on or off.
3.4.1. Algorithm Summary and Key Steps
The algorithm first initializes parameters and then en-
queues node pairs to P and Q lists using the LLALDI
module. In Algorithm 4, M apQ is a function that maps
link state to Q-values: +0.5 (conf irmed on) or -0.5
(conf irmed of f ). Similarly, M apS is a function to map
link state to Q-learning state: 0 (conf irmed of f ) or 1
(conf irmed on). After that, it engages in Q-learning by
sending an appropriate packet out and listening to the
packet in. The decision to send a packet out or not is
taken by using a state-adaptive epsilon-greedy approach.
Once the packet in is received, it will update state, reward,
and Q-value. However, if node i is detected as a malicious
LLDP dropping node and packet in is not received, a re-
verse LLDP will be sent from node j to i, and then node i’s
packet-traced port mirror will be inspected for reception
of the reverse LLDP from j. A packet-traced port mirror
operates at the data link layer and is independent from
the higher layer’s malicious behavior; thus, it can be effec-
tively utilized to verify that node i received reverse LLDP
from node j regardless of its malicious behavior of drop-
ping LLDP packets. Finally, B t will be derived using the
updated Q-value and output, as indicated in Algorithm 4.
Reward Function Design. The reward should be ob-
tained from the environment (network). The controller
may resend a timestamped, digitally signed link layer dis-
covery packet from source i at each step of Q-learning.
Thus, the reward function is formulated as given in (7).
Wijp = µ1 (wsuspicion ) + µ2 (wdelivery ) + µ3 (wlatency )
= µ1 (wsuspicion ) + µ2 (apij λpij ) − µ3 (apij
tpij
)
Tmax
(7)
In (7), λpij is the event that the link discovery packet is
delivered at node j, tpij is the link discovery packet latency
for link i − j through port p, and Tmax is the maximum
expected link latency.
wsuspicion is the reward for the link’s suspicious behav-
ior, and it can be obtained as in (8).
wsuspicion = {−1 : normal of f, +1 : normal on,
+0.25 : suspicious of f, −0.25 : suspicious on,
(9)
(8)
−0.50 : conf irmed of f, +0.50 : conf irmed on}
19Algorithm 4 Blockchain and Q-Learning-driven approach to
mitigate Link Discovery Attacks (BQLLDA).
1: procedure BQLLDA(B t , D t , D t−1 , N, Z, ZRSU , ZV EH )
2:
M ← Blockchain.GetBlacklistN odes(), I t = Dt − Dt−1
p
p
3:
Initialize all D′ ij ← Dt [i, j]∀p, I ′ ij ← I t [i, j]∀p
p
p
4:
Initialize all Qij ← M apQ(XOR[B t [i, j, p, p′ ]∀p′ ]), Sij
← M apS(XOR[B t [i, j, p, p′ ]∀p′ ])
p
p
t
5:
Initialize all Eij [RL iter] ← ([1 − abs(IH
[i, j])])AN D([1 − abs(ILt [i, j])]), Fi [RL iter] ←!(XOR[abs(I t [i, j])∀j])
6:
for i = 0, ..., N − 1 do
7:
for j = 0, ..., N − 1 do
t
8:
if {(i ∈
/ M )&&(j ∈
/ M )&&(Iij
! = 0)} then
9:
P.enqueue(i, j)
10:
else if {(i ∈ M )||(j ∈ M )} then
11:
Q.enqueue(i, j)
12:
end if
13:
end for
14:
end for
15:
for i = 0, ..., N − 1 do
16:
for j = 0, ..., N − 1 do
17:
for p = 0, ..., A − 1 do
18:
for k = 0, ...., RL iter − 1 do
19:
Select apij using state-adaptive epsilon-greedy approach
20:
if {([i, j] ∈ P )||([i, j] ∈ Q)} then
p
21:
if {(i ∈ ZRSU )&(Eij
[k] == 0)&(ap
ij == 1)} then
22:
Sign & transmit LLDP packet out to i
p
23:
Eij
[k] ← 1
24:
end if
25:
if {(i ∈ ZV EH )&(Fip [k] == 0)&(ap
ij == 1)} then
26:
Sign & transmit LLDP packet out to i
27:
Fip [k] ← 1
28:
end if
29:
end if
30:
Wait for packet in and get i, j, p, p′
31:
R ← Blockchain.GetBlacklist LLDP Drop N ode(i)
32:
if ((R == T rue)&&(packet in not received)) OR (Duplicate ports detected) then
33:
Sign & transmit ReverseLLDP packet out to j in all ports
34:
Inspect the packet traced port mirrors of i and j
35:
else
36:
Verify, & accept packet in and get i, j, p, p′
37:
end if
p
38:
Update Sij
p
p
39:
Update D′ ij using packet in status and update I ′ ij
p
p
40:
Compute Wij and Qij
41:
end for
42:
Update B t [i, j, p, p′ ] ← M apB(U0 [Qpij ], p′ )
43:
end for
44:
end for
45:
end for
46:
return B t
47: end procedure
3.4.2. Convergence and complexity notes
Moreover, we inspect the average change in Q-values in
the last 3 time steps in an episode and stop the episode
if the change in Q-value is less than a threshold (check
for convergence). Refer to appendix 7.3 for complexity
analysis of the algorithm.
as existing using the LDS), channel utilization (overall
combined DSRC, LTE, and Ethernet channel utilization
percentage for link discovery), packet interception rate
(percentage of packets captured by intermediate nodes
when packets are transmitted in in links discovered as
existing using the LDS), latency (the total time taken
for link discovery service), Matthews Correlation Coeffi-
cient (balanced performance metric for binary classifica-
tion that takes into account all entries of the confusion
matrix and returns a value between –1 and +1, where +1
indicates perfect prediction, 0 indicates random predic-
tion, and –1 indicates total disagreement), and computa-
4. Results
4.1. Performance evaluation metrics
We utilize packet delivery rate (percentage of packet de-
livered when packets are transmitted in links discovered
20tional complexity (total computational load of the LDS in
terms of time taken for computation–Refer to appendix
7.4) as performance evaluation metrics.
less applicable to the current observations in the selected
link discovery problem, unlike in a traditional reinforce-
ment learning approach. Additionally, for the proposed
LDA mitigation scheme, we set µ1 = 0.7, µ2 = 1.0, and
µ3 = 1.0, and we set the maximum number of RL iter-
ations as 6. Hyperparameter β = 0.01 was selected via
grid search 0, 0.01, 0.05, 0.1: β = 0 achieved M CC = 0.64,
β = 0.01 achieved MCC=0.66 under 60% combined at-
tacks, while βgeq0.05 degraded to M CC < 0.65 due to
mobility-induced topology staleness.
Simulation settings are summarized in Table 3.
4.2. Simulation settings
We selected an urban Colombo area in Sri Lanka for
simulation by importing mobility traces using the SUMO
and OpenStreetMap tools, while the network was simu-
lated using Network Simulator 3. We used 4G-LTE and
Ethernet for control plane communication from vehicles
and RSUs, respectively. The maximum speed of vehicles
was set at 60 kmph. The transmission power is set at 33
dBm, and we place 16 RSUs at road junctions and sim-
ulate 80 vehicles in the network. We deploy 4 controllers
(1 primary and 1 backup controller pair and 2 other pri-
mary controllers) in communication range of the network,
where up to 3 primary controllers (1 from the pair and
another additional two primary controllers) can act as ma-
licious depending on the attack percentage (if the attack
percentage is less than 10%, all controllers are benign; if
greater than or equal to 10% and less than 33%, only 1
controller will act as malicious; if greater than 33% and
less than 66%, two controllers are malicious; otherwise, 3
controllers act as malicious). Attackers are distributed us-
ing two models: (1) 50% Random: uniform distribution
across vehicles/RSUs, (2) 50% strategic: targeting nodes
with highest betweenness centrality (computed from mo-
bility traces). DSRC was used for data plane communi-
cation with log-distance as the propagation loss model.
Moreover, we used gRPC over TLS-secured TCP/IP for
blockchain communication, where we selected Hyperledger
Fabric version 3.0 as the blockchain platform, implemented
smart contracts (chaincode) in JavaScript using Node.js,
and selected BFT-SMaRt as the ordering stage consen-
sus approach. Here, each SDVN node is connected to the
blockchain network as a client through REST APIs so that
in NS3, each node can call these APIs using CURL. More-
over, we called shell scripts directly from the NS3 envi-
ronment to configure the blockchain. In order to cater to
low latency requirements of SDVN, we manually config-
ured the settings of the Gossip protocol (maximum prop-
agation burst latency = 100 ms, maximum propagation
burst size = 50, publish certificate period = 2 s, pull in-
terval = 500 ms), ordering service (batch timeout = 100
ms, maximum message count = 30), and channel settings
(batch timeout = 100 ms, maximum message count = 30).
We stored all keys and cryptographic content (ciphertexts,
signatures, hashes, etc.) by exporting them into hexadec-
imal strings and converting them in to bytes for commu-
nication in the SDVN network. Leader peer selection of
the blockchain is set to dynamic in order to improve the
security and to address the dynamic nature of nodes in
the vehicular network. In an experiment, the total sim-
ulation time was 240 s. A moderate learning rate of 0.4
was selected to strike a balance in learning experience and
present observations, while the discount factor was set to
a low value of 0.01, as the rewards from future states are
Table 3: Simulation settings.
Parameter
Network Simulation
tool
Optimization tool
Mobility trace ex-
traction
Map
Run time, cryptogra-
phy
Number of nodes
Communication
channels
Location update fre-
quency
Q-learning parame-
ters
Blockchain, SC, con-
sensus
Value
Network simulator version 3.35
Gurobi commercial optimizer
SUMO, OpenStreetMap
Colombo, Sri Lanka (2000m x
2000m)
240 s, Pycryptodome and AS-
CON (classical), Cairo and
Scarb (ZKP-STARK), liboqs-
python (post-quantum)
96 (80 vehicles, 16 RSUs)
5.9 GHz DSRC (data plane),
4G-LTE and Ethernet (con-
trol plane), gRPC over TLS-
secured TCP/IP (blockchain)
10 Hz
Maximum 6 iterations/node,
α = 0.40, β = 0.01
Hyperledger-fabric
V3.0,
Chaincode (Node.js), BFT-
SMaRt
4.3. Test scenarios
Our results are compared against state-of-the-art port-
based defense [10], Link-Guard [14], and pure cryptogra-
phy (HMAC-based) [16] (to compare with baseline secure
LLPD approaches), without security measures for LLDP
(to measure the impact of the attack), and without secu-
rity measures for VANET hello packet (to compare with
VANET). We exclude deep RL approaches [17] from com-
parison because their continuous state-space DNN approx-
imation requires extensive training data unavailable in our
240s simulation window.
4.3.1. Mitigation of attack 1
In this experiment, the attackers change the location
of the nodes continuously. Channel utilization, latency,
and computational complexity of the proposed BQLLDA
compared with other techniques under diverse attack per-
centages are as given in Fig. 9.
215
30
Proposed BQLLDA
HELLO
Link Guard
25
Normal LLDP
Port-based
Pure crypto
20
0
0
20
40
60
80
Attack percentage (%)
100
15
0
20
40
60
80
Attack percentage (%)
(a)
(b)
100
Computational complexity ( s)
10
Normal LLDP
Port-based
Pure crypto
Latency (ms)
Channel Utilization (%)
35
Proposed BQLLDA
HELLO
Link Guard
104
8
40
15
6
Proposed BQLLDA
HELLO
Link Guard
4
Normal LLDP
Port-based
Pure crypto
2
0
0
20
40
60
80
Attack percentage (%)
100
(c)
Figure 9: Performance evaluation Attack 1 (a) Channel utilization (b) Latency (c) Computational complexity
triggered flooding attacks. This stability stems from the
LLALDI module, which intelligently filters link discovery
attempts based on verified location tracking and behav-
ioral monitoring. The blockchain-based location verifica-
tion mechanism (inter-aggregate, intra-aggregate verifica-
tion, and node behavioral monitoring) effectively identifies
and mitigates falsified location reports before they trigger
excessive LLDP flooding, maintaining computational effi-
ciency even at 100% attack intensity. When compared to
existing techniques, HELLO packets exhibit higher latency
(38.2 ms) due to their broadcast nature without controller
validation. Link-Guard shows moderate latency (32.1 ms)
as it lacks the adaptive filtering capability of LLALDI, pro-
cessing all requests uniformly, and the absence of location-
triggered mechanisms. Normal LLDP and port-based ap-
proaches maintain lower absolute latency values (15.9 ms)
but lack security measures entirely, rendering these mea-
surements meaningless under attack conditions where net-
work topology becomes compromised. Pure cryptography
achieves comparable latency (15.8 ms) to unsecured ap-
proaches but fails to address the fundamental issue of at-
tack prevention through intelligent filtering.
Attack 1 - channel utilization analysis. The proposed
BQLLDA, as observed from Figure 9a, maintains con-
stant channel utilization (14.27%) regardless of attack per-
centage, demonstrating exceptional resilience to falsified
location triggered flooding attempts. This invariance is
achieved through the LLALDI module’s proactive filter-
ing of malicious location reports before LLDP transmis-
sion, combined with packet limiting mechanisms defined
in equation (4) and blockchain-based blacklisting through
the BWTRCB algorithm. The consensus-driven reputa-
tion system prevents malicious nodes from triggering ex-
cessive link discovery cycles, while the Q-learning com-
ponent optimally balances exploration and exploitation
based on link suspicion states, effectively neutralizing the
controller and data plane flooding attempts inherent in
Attack 1. HELLO packets exhibit dramatically lower uti-
lization (0.42%) due to their restriction to vehicular net-
works without comprehensive SDVN infrastructure inte-
gration, though this comes at the cost of inadequate se-
curity. Link-Guard shows marginally higher utilization
(14.63%) than BQLLDA, suggesting less efficient filter-
ing of attack-induced traffic despite implementing some
security measures. Normal LLDP, port-based defense, and
pure cryptography all maintain 14.27% utilization, identi-
cal to BQLLDA under baseline conditions; however, these
techniques lack the behavioral monitoring, location verifi-
cation, and adaptive link discovery components that en-
able BQLLDA to prevent attack-induced traffic amplifica-
tion, meaning their consistent utilization reflects an inabil-
ity to distinguish between legitimate and attack-induced
link discovery rather than effective mitigation owing to
the fact that those techniques are not basically location-
driven.
Attack 1 - computational complexity analysis. BQLLDA
exhibits significantly higher computational complexity
(54,536-70,575 µs) compared to other techniques (refer
to Figure 9c), with a notable increase at higher at-
tack percentages (80-100%). This elevated complexity is
attributable to the comprehensive security architecture
encompassing blockchain consensus operations, crypto-
graphic computations (mixed post-quantum and classical
signatures, ZKP-STARK verification, HMAC generation),
Q-learning iterations, and distributed trust score manage-
ment through the BWTRCB algorithm. The computa-
tional overhead represents a deliberate trade-off for achiev-
ing robust security through multi-layered defense mech-
anisms, including challenge-response registration, dual-
stage authentication, and endorsement policy-driven con-
Attack 1 - latency analysis. The proposed BQLLDA
framework demonstrates consistently low latency across
all attack percentages (29.5-30.1 ms), as evident from Fig-
ure 9b, exhibiting remarkable resilience to falsified location
2240
300
Normal LLDP
Port-based
Pure crypto
250
30
20
10
0
Proposed BQLLDA
HELLO
Link Guard
200
150
100
50
0
20
40
60
80
Attack percentage (%)
100
0
0
20
40
60
80
Attack percentage (%)
(a)
(b)
105
3
Normal LLDP
Port-based
Pure crypto
Computational complexity ( s)
Proposed BQLLDA
HELLO
Link Guard
Latency (ms)
Channel Utilization (%)
50
100
Proposed BQLLDA
HELLO
Link Guard
2.5
Normal LLDP
Port-based
Pure crypto
2
1.5
1
0.5
0
0
20
40
60
80
Attack percentage (%)
100
(c)
Figure 10: Performance evaluation Attack 2 (a) Channel utilization (b) Latency (c) Computational complexity
sensus for reputation updates. Despite this overhead, the
complexity remains manageable for vehicular network re-
quirements. In contrast, HELLO packets demonstrate ex-
ceptionally low complexity (159-230 µs) due to their sim-
plistic broadcast mechanism without cryptographic pro-
tection or controller validation, making them computa-
tionally efficient but fundamentally insecure. Port-based
defense shows moderate complexity (266-360 µs) by imple-
menting basic port verification without comprehensive be-
havioral monitoring or blockchain-based reputation man-
agement. Pure cryptography approaches middle-ground
complexity (24,379-24,508 µs) through HMAC operations
but lack the intelligent attack detection and adaptive link
discovery mechanisms that necessitate higher computa-
tional investment in BQLLDA. Normal LLDP exhibits
variable complexity (806-2,316 µs) with increasing over-
head under attack conditions, demonstrating vulnerability
without proper defense mechanisms.
can be attributed to the adaptive link discovery mecha-
nism (LLALDI module), which intelligently reduces un-
necessary link discovery attempts for nodes identified as
malicious through blockchain-based reputation monitor-
ing (Algorithm 1). Furthermore, the blockchain-based
weighted endorser trust-driven reputation system enables
rapid identification and blacklisting of flooding nodes,
preventing their duplicate packets from being processed
beyond initial signature verification. In contrast, Nor-
mal LLDP and Port-based approaches exhibit dramatic
channel utilization increases from approximately 14.3% to
43.2% as attack percentage rises to 100%, demonstrating
their vulnerability to flooding attacks due to the absence
of packet limiting and signature-based duplicate detec-
tion mechanisms. Link Guard shows progressive degra-
dation from 14.46% to 36.98%, suggesting partial miti-
gation capabilities but lacking the comprehensive crypto-
graphic validation and blockchain-driven behavioral moni-
toring that enables BQLLDA to identify and isolate flood-
ing sources effectively. Pure cryptography performs worst
among secure approaches (escalating to 46.4% at 100%
attack), as HMAC-based authentication alone cannot pre-
vent malicious controllers from flooding the network—a
vulnerability that BQLLDA addresses through its con-
troller trust evaluation mechanism (Algorithm 3) and dy-
namic controller switching capability. The HELLO packet
approach maintains minimal channel utilization (rising
only to 1.08%) but at the cost of lacking controller val-
idation, rendering it unsuitable for secure SDVN environ-
ments despite its efficiency.
4.3.2. Mitigation of attack 2
In this experiment, the attackers (controller or data
plane nodes) send multiple copies of legitimate link dis-
covery packets continuously. Channel utilization, latency,
and computational complexity of the proposed BQLLDA
compared with other techniques under diverse attack per-
centages is as given in Fig. 10.
Attack 2 - channel utilization analysis. The proposed
BQLLDA framework demonstrates remarkably stable and
efficient channel utilization across all attack intensities,
maintaining approximately 13.5-14.3% utilization even as
the attack percentage escalates from 0% to 100%, as ev-
ident from Figure 10a. This trend reflects the effective-
ness of the packet limiting mechanism defined in equa-
tion 4, which restricts duplicate packets with matching
digital signatures to a maximum threshold of JAN 2 for
packet out/packet in pairs. The slight reduction from
14.27% at 0% attack to 13.5% at higher attack percentages
Attack 2 - latency analysis. BQLLDA exhibits a counter-
intuitive latency reduction from 30.1ms at 0% attack to
a stable 24.6ms at attack percentages of 20% and above,
as seen from Figure 10b, which can be explained by the
Q-learning-driven state-adaptive link discovery strategy.
Under normal conditions, the framework performs com-
prehensive authentication cycles including both stage 1
23and stage 2 blockchain-driven authentication with ZKP
verification, digital signature validation, and location-
reputation attribute checking. However, as malicious
nodes are identified through the BWTRCB algorithm (Al-
gorithm 1) and added to blacklists, the system bypasses
unnecessary link discovery attempts for these nodes, re-
ducing overall authentication overhead while maintaining
security. The persistent 24.6ms latency across high at-
tack percentages demonstrates the efficiency of the dual
symmetric key approach (ASCON-128 for downlink, AES-
256 for uplink) and the caching of ZKP-STARK proofs
and Poseidon HMACs in the blockchain, which eliminates
repetitive cryptographic computations during subsequent
authentication sessions. Conversely, Normal LLDP, Port-
based, and Pure crypto methods suffer catastrophic la-
tency increases to approximately 254.7ms at 100% attack,
as they lack mechanisms to distinguish legitimate traffic
from flooding attacks, forcing the system to process all
packets including duplicates. Link Guard demonstrates se-
vere latency degradation (reaching 203.4ms), attributable
to its reactive defense mechanisms that must analyze traf-
fic patterns post-reception rather than proactively pre-
venting floods through signature-based duplicate rejection.
The HELLO packet approach shows substantial latency
increases (30.1ms to 98.2ms) despite minimal channel uti-
lization, indicating processing bottlenecks when handling
broadcast-based discovery without cryptographic valida-
tion and controller trust assessment. Notably, BQLLDA’s
ability to switch malicious controllers to trusted alterna-
tives ensures consistent performance even when primary
controllers participate in flooding attacks—a capability
absent in all comparison techniques, which assume con-
troller trustworthiness and consequently fail when control
plane attacks occur.
malicious nodes, thereby reducing the number of cryp-
tographic operations despite maintaining comprehensive
security for legitimate nodes. Interestingly, Pure crypto
emerges as the most computationally intensive approach,
escalating from 24,393 µs to 252,403 µs at 100% at-
tack—significantly worse than BQLLDA—demonstrating
that cryptography alone without intelligent filtering cre-
ates unsustainable computational burdens when process-
ing flooding attacks. Normal LLDP and Port-based meth-
ods show moderate complexity increases (229 µs to 9,302
µs and 3,193µs respectively) but achieve this efficiency by
sacrificing security entirely, processing fraudulent packets
without validation until system resources are exhausted.
Link Guard maintains relatively modest computational
overhead (498µs to 3,245µs), suggesting lightweight de-
fense mechanisms that prove insufficient against sophisti-
cated flooding attacks as evidenced by its poor channel
utilization and latency performance. The HELLO packet
approach exhibits minimal computational demands (136µs
to 225µs) consistent with its lack of controller validation
and cryptographic security. Critically, BQLLDA’s compu-
tational investment delivers proportional security returns:
the combination of blockchain-based behavioral monitor-
ing, adaptive Q-learning, and controller trustworthiness
evaluation ensures that computational resources are di-
rected toward legitimate traffic processing rather than
wasted on malicious packet handling—a fundamental ad-
vantage absent in comparison techniques that either over-
process attacks (Pure crypto) or under-secure the network
(Port-based, Normal LLDP, HELLO).
4.3.3. Mitigation of attack 3
In this experiment, the attackers fabricate link discov-
ery packets and send them to the controller continuously
(data plane version), while controller will maliciously cre-
ate fake links between data plane nodes, where links do
not exist, when the controller is malicious. The packet
delivery rate, packet interception rate, and Matthews cor-
relation coefficient of the proposed BQLLDA compared
with other techniques under diverse attack percentages is
as given in Fig. 11.
Attack 2 - computational complexity analysis. The pro-
posed BQLLDA framework exhibits the second highest
computational complexity among evaluated techniques,
ranging from 53,458 µs at 0% attack to 46,349 µs at
100% attack, as seen from Figure 10c, with interme-
diate fluctuations reflecting the dynamic trade-off be-
tween security operations and attack mitigation effi-
ciency. This computational investment stems from the
multi-layered security architecture: post-quantum cryp-
tographic operations (FALCON-1024 digital signatures,
Kyber-1024 encryption), ZKP-STARK generation and ver-
ification for challenge-response authentication, blockchain
consensus operations with weighted endorser trust scor-
ing, Q-learning iterations (up to 6 iterations per link), and
HMAC computations at multiple protocol stages (global
Poseidon HMAC, session HMACs 1 and 2, and global
HMAC-SHA-256 for location verification). The reduction
in computational complexity at higher attack percentages
(37,015 µs at 80%, 46,349 µs at 100%) relative to mod-
erate attacks (53,458 µs at 0%) can be attributed to the
blacklisting mechanism, which prevents repeated authen-
tication attempts and Q-learning iterations for identified
Attack 3 - packet delivery ratio analysis. The proposed
BQLLDA framework, as shown in Figure 11a, exhibits
outstanding resilience against link fabrication attacks, sus-
taining a consistently high packet delivery ratio of 97–98%
across all attack intensities from 0% to 100%. This stabil-
ity arises from its multi-layered defense architecture, which
fundamentally prevents fabricated links from entering the
network topology. The slight fluctuation around 97.47% at
60% attack intensity reflects normal variance, not degra-
dation, thanks to blockchain-based authentication using
ZKP-STARK proofs, dual-session HMAC verification, and
FALCON-1024 signatures that filter out all fake link dis-
covery packets before topology integration. Additionally,
the BCTES algorithm enables detection and autonomous
switching to a backup trusted controller when the primary
241
Normal LLDP
Port-based
Pure crypto
60
40
20
0
15
10
Proposed BQLLDA
HELLO
Link Guard
5
Normal LLDP
Port-based
Pure crypto
0
0
20
40
60
80
Attack percentage (%)
100
0
20
40
60
80
Attack percentage (%)
(a)
(b)
100
Matthews correlation coefficient
Proposed BQLLDA
HELLO
Link Guard
80
Packet interception ratio (%)
Packet delivery ratio (%)
100
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0
-0.2
0
Proposed BQLLDA
HELLO
Link Guard
20
Normal LLDP
Port-based
Pure crypto
40
60
80
Attack percentage (%)
100
(c)
Figure 11: Performance evaluation Attack 3 (a) Packet delivery ratio (b) Packet interception ratio (c) Matthews
correlation coefficient
even successful topology manipulation would yield useless
intercepted traffic due to end-to-end encryption between
authenticated nodes.
In contrast, all baseline approaches exhibit persistent
packet interception rates of approximately 9% to 16%,
even at zero attack percentage, due to inherent vulnerabil-
ities in link discovery mechanism that allow passive obser-
vation of data plane traffic by intermediate nodes. A slight
decreasing trend in PIR likely results from incorrect port-
pair link fabrications. HELLO packet methods maintain
interception rates between 9.34% and 15.91% as compro-
mised RSUs can eavesdrop on unencrypted neighbor dis-
covery broadcasts and insert themselves as phantom hops.
Link-Guard (9.96% to 16.35%) and other cryptographic
approaches (10.0% to 16.06%) fail to prevent interception
because, despite verifying packet authenticity, they do not
block attackers with legitimate network presence from fab-
ricating links and passively or actively intercepting traf-
fic. These techniques lack both the blockchain-based rep-
utation system and behavioral monitoring (Algorithm 1:
BWTRCB) needed to detect suspicious relay patterns or
malicious controllers that route traffic through compro-
mised nodes via fake topology views.
one attempts malicious link injection, preserving legiti-
mate topology and routing accuracy.
In contrast, conventional methods suffer severe PDR
degradation with increasing attack intensity. The HELLO
packet approach drops from 93.27% to 9.96% at 100%
attacks, as traditional VANET hello packets lack con-
troller validation and cryptographic protection, making
them easily exploitable. Link-Guard performs slightly
better initially (58.14% at 20%) but falls to 11.04% at
100%, limited by its inability to authenticate packet ori-
gins or counter sophisticated fabrication when attackers
know legitimate node IDs and port details. Normal LLDP
(53.6% to 12.4%), port-based defense (55.9% to 12.5%),
and pure cryptography methods (59.04% to 12.7%) all
converge to similarly poor results at high attack levels
due to the absence of distributed behavioral monitoring,
blockchain consensus for topology verification, and effec-
tive countermeasures against controller-originated attacks,
allowing fake links to corrupt routing and divert traffic to
nonexistent paths.
Attack 3 - packet interception rate analysis. The pro-
posed BQLLDA framework achieves zero packet intercep-
tion across all attack scenarios (Figure 11b), providing
a fundamental security guarantee unmatched by exist-
ing techniques. This absolute protection stems primar-
ily from private encrypted channels between discovered
links, comprehensive elimination of fabricated links via
cryptographic verification chains, and the inability of at-
tackers to forge valid time-limited session HMACs (M1ijp
′
and M2ijpp ). Dual-stage blockchain-driven authentication
binds node identities to registered credentials, preventing
man-in-the-middle positioning. Attempted phantom link
creation triggers blacklisting due to mismatched port IDs
in packet in messages compared to authenticated port in-
formation. Most importantly, ECDH-based symmetric key
establishment during legitimate link discovery ensures that
Attack 3 - MCC analysis. The proposed BQLLDA main-
tains an exceptionally high MCC between 0.9542 and
0.9675 across all attack intensities, while it barely deterio-
rates, as seen from Figure 11c, demonstrating near-perfect
link state classification accuracy with balanced consid-
eration of true positives, true negatives, false positives,
and false negatives. This superior performance emerges
from the Q-learning-based state determination module
that adaptively classifies links into six nuanced states using
multiple information sources: distance-based expected link
states (Dt matrix), LLDP packet delivery outcomes (λpi j),
behavioral reputation scores retrieved from blockchain,
and cryptographic verification results. The RL agent’s
2560
40
20
Prop. BQLLDA
HELLO
Link Guard
0
20
Normal LLDP
Port-based
Pure crypto
40
60
80
Attack percentage (%)
15
Proposed BQLLDA
HELLO
Link Guard
10
Normal LLDP
Port-based
Pure crypto
5
0
100
0
20
40
60
80
Attack percentage (%)
(a)
(b)
100
Matthews correlation coefficient
80
0
1
20
Packet interception ratio (%)
Packet delivery ratio (%)
100
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
Prop. BQLLDA
HELLO
Link Guard
0
20
Normal LLDP
Port-based
Pure crypto
40
60
80
Attack percentage (%)
100
(c)
Figure 12: Performance evaluation Attack 4 (a) Packet delivery ratio (b) Packet interception ratio (c) Matthews
correlation coefficient
diverse attack percentages is as given in Fig. 12.
reward function incorporating suspicion weights, delivery
confirmation, and latency measurements enables the con-
troller to iteratively refine link state estimates even when
attackers inject contradictory topology information, while
the state-adaptive epsilon-greedy exploration strategy en-
sures additional verification for suspicious links, prevent-
ing both false positives from fabricated links and false neg-
atives from vanished legitimate links.
In contrast, existing methods suffer severe MCC degra-
dation under increasing attack intensity, with most col-
lapsing toward zero (random classification) at high at-
tack rates. The HELLO packet approach drops from
0.9025 to zero at 100% attacks due to its broadcast-
only mechanism, which lacks controller validation and pro-
duces high false positives from fabricated announcements
while missing legitimate links under attack traffic. Link-
Guard shows moderate resilience (0.91 to 0.07) via port-
based filtering that reduces some false positives, but fails
in dynamic vehicular networks because it lacks adaptive
learning to differentiate legitimate topology changes from
attack-induced fabrications. Standard LLDP (0.9729 to
0.16), port-based (0.9729 to 0.17), and pure cryptographic
methods (0.9729 to 0.18) exhibit comparable degradation,
as they depend on single-observation topology inference
without distributed consensus or behavioral reputation,
leaving them vulnerable to collaborative Sybil attacks and
unable to detect or recover from controller-level topology
falsification.
Attack 4 - packet delivery rate analysis. The proposed
BQLLDA framework maintains exceptionally high packet
delivery rates (97-98%) across all attack percentages,
demonstrating robust resilience against replay attacks.
This consistent performance stems from the integration
of time-limited session-based HMACs that invalidate re-
played packets and the blockchain-driven authentication
mechanism that prevents unauthorized nodes from suc-
cessfully impersonating legitimate communication end-
points. The slight variation observed at 80% attack in-
tensity (97.47%) reflects the adaptive Q-learning compo-
nent dynamically adjusting link discovery patterns in re-
sponse to heightened suspicious activity detected through
behavioral monitoring. In contrast, existing techniques ex-
hibit severe degradation as attack intensity increases, with
HELLO packets dropping to 19.92% at 100% attack pen-
etration due to the lack of controller validation and cryp-
tographic protection. Link-Guard, Normal LLDP, Port-
based, and Pure crypto approaches all converge to ap-
proximately 23-24% delivery rates at maximum attack lev-
els because they lack the proposed framework’s capability
to detect and switch malicious controllers, leaving them
vulnerable when control plane entities are compromised.
The proposed method’s unique controller trust evaluation
mechanism (BCTES algorithm) enables seamless transi-
tion to backup controllers, maintaining network integrity
even when primary controllers exhibit malicious replay be-
havior, a critical advantage not present in any comparative
technique. Packet Interception Rate Analysis
4.3.4. Mitigation of attack 4
In this experiment, the attackers replay the legitimate
link discovery packets received from neighbors continu-
ously (data plane version), while a malicious controller will
fabricate a link between data plane nodes, where links do
not exist between 2 ports of the same channel. Packet
delivery rate, capture interception rate, and MCC of the
proposed BQLLDA compared with other techniques under
Attack 4 - packet interception rate analysis. The
BQLLDA framework achieves zero packet interception
across all attack scenarios, a remarkable result attributable
to its multi-layered defense incorporating Diffie-Hellman
key exchange for encrypted node-to-node communication
and ASCON-128/AES-256 encryption for control plane
26communications. Specifically, this framework’s crypto-
graphic architecture, combining post-quantum and clas-
sical cryptography with ZKP-based authentication, makes
sure that even when attackers attempt man-in-the-middle
strategies, they simply cannot decrypt intercepted traffic
or extract session keys required for successful eavesdrop-
ping. The blockchain-based reputation system (BWTRCB
algorithm) continuously monitors and blacklists nodes ex-
hibiting replay behavior, effectively isolating malicious en-
tities before they can establish positions as intermedi-
aries in fabricated link paths. Conversely, all baseline
approaches demonstrate interception rates ranging from
15-20%, with rates slightly increasing under higher attack
percentages as more compromised nodes position them-
selves as replay attack vectors increasing link fabrication
between active ports. The HELLO packet approach shows
particularly concerning vulnerability (18.67% at 100% at-
tack) because it operates without controller involvement
or cryptographic verification, allowing attackers to freely
intercept and redirect traffic through fabricated interme-
diate links.
or penetration depth.
4.3.5. Mitigation of attack 5
In this experiment, the attackers collaborate and re-
play fabricated LLDP packets continuously or drop legiti-
mate LLDP packets in the data plane version or malicious
LLDP packet discarding by the controller. The packet
deliver rate, interception rate, and MCC of the proposed
BQLLDA compared with other techniques under diverse
attack percentages is as given in Fig. 13.
Attack 5 - packet delivery rate analysis. The proposed
BQLLDA framework maintains exceptionally high packet
delivery rates across attack intensities, achieving 97.70-
98% delivery for attack percentages from 0-80%, with
a sharp decline to 27.2% only at 100% attack sat-
uration. This resilience stems from the framework’s
multi-layered defense mechanisms: the blockchain-based
weighted endorser trust system (Algorithm 1) continuously
monitors and blacklists malicious LLDP-dropping nodes
with reverse LLDP when drop is suspected, while the
Q-learning component adaptively investigates suspicious
links through state-adaptive epsilon-greedy exploration,
preventing both fabricated packet acceptance and legiti-
mate packet drops. The controller trust evaluation mecha-
nism (Algorithm 2, BCTES) enables seamless switching to
the backup controller when the primary controller exhibits
malicious behavior, ensuring service continuity even under
severe attacks. In contrast, existing techniques demon-
strate progressive degradation, with Link-Guard declin-
ing from 97.78% to 83.01% and conventional approaches
(Normal LLDP, Port-based, Pure crypto) dropping to 88-
92% at 80% attacks before complete failure at 100%.
These techniques lack controller-level attack mitigation
and distributed behavioral monitoring capabilities, ren-
dering them vulnerable to coordinated link vanishing at-
tacks where malicious nodes systematically drop or fabri-
cate LLDP packets without detection or countermeasures.
Attack 4 - Matthews correlation coefficient analysis. The
proposed BQLLDA maintains MCC values above 0.95
across all attack intensities, indicating near-perfect clas-
sification accuracy in distinguishing legitimate from fab-
ricated link states even under complete network compro-
mise scenarios. This superior performance derives from
the Q-learning state determination module that com-
bines multiple verification signals—suspicious behavior
scoring, packet delivery confirmation, and latency anal-
ysis—weighted through the reward function to accurately
classify link states as conf irmed on, conf irmed of f , or
suspicious variants. The framework’s blockchain-based
weighted endorser trust mechanism ensures that link state
decisions incorporate consensus from multiple trusted ob-
servers rather than relying on single-point observations,
providing Byzantine fault tolerance that maintains classi-
fication accuracy when individual endorsers are compro-
mised. Existing techniques show progressive MCC degra-
dation, with Port-based and Pure crypto approaches de-
clining to 0.39 at maximum attack levels, reflecting their
inability to differentiate replayed legitimate packets from
authentic current communications without time-bound au-
thentication tokens. Link-Guard’s performance (0.34 at
100% attack) suffers particularly because its detection
mechanisms cannot address control plane attacks where
malicious controllers deliberately fabricate links between
existing ports, a scenario the proposed BCTES algorithm
explicitly handles through cross-endorsement validation
with non-malicious data plane subsets. The reinforcement
learning component’s adaptive link rediscovery, triggered
more frequently for suspicious nodes identified through
behavioral monitoring, enables the proposed framework
to continuously refine its link state classifications, main-
taining high correlation coefficients that reflect accurate
topological awareness regardless of attack sophistication
Attack 5 - packet interception rate analysis. The proposed
BQLLDA achieves zero packet interception across all at-
tack scenarios (0-100%), demonstrating complete elimina-
tion of man-in-the-middle vulnerabilities inherent to At-
tack 5’s replay-fabrication-dropping combination. This su-
perior performance results from the dual-HMAC authen-
tication scheme with time-limited session keys (HMAC1
for intermediate packets, HMAC2 for packet in) com-
bined with post-quantum FALCON-1024 signatures and
blockchain-verified ZKP authentication, which collectively
prevent attackers from successfully replaying fabricated
packets to deceive intermediate nodes about non-existent
links. The cryptographic approach ensures that even if
attackers intercept legitimate LLDP packets, they cannot
create valid replays due to strict temporal constraints and
node-specific authentication tied to blockchain-registered
identities. Conversely, all baseline techniques exhibit per-
sistent interception rates with a decreasing trend with the
271
80
60
40
Prop. BQLLDA
HELLO
Link Guard
20
0
Normal LLDP
Port-based
Pure crypto
Matthews correlation coefficient
Packet interception ratio (%)
Packet delivery ratio (%)
100
15
10
Prop. BQLLDA
HELLO
Link Guard
5
Normal LLDP
Port-based
Pure crypto
0
0
20
40
60
80
Attack percentage (%)
100
0
20
40
60
80
Attack percentage (%)
(a)
(b)
100
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0
-0.2
0
Prop. BQLLDA
HELLO
Link Guard
20
Normal LLDP
Port-based
Pure crypto
40
60
80
Attack percentage (%)
100
(c)
Figure 13: Performance evaluation Attack 5 (a) Packet delivery ratio (b) Packet interception ratio (c) Matthews
correlation coefficient
mance worse than random classification. The absence
of adaptive learning mechanisms, distributed behavioral
monitoring through weighted endorsement, and controller-
level attack detection in these techniques prevents them
from maintaining classification accuracy when attackers
systematically corrupt the link discovery topology through
coordinated dropping and fabrication strategies.
increment of the attack of 10-16% regardless of attack in-
tensity, with HELLO packets showing marginally lower
rates (14.40-16.37%) due to their broadcast nature lack-
ing controller validation. Link-Guard, Pure crypto, and
Port-based defenses, despite employing security measures,
maintain 12-16% interception at high attack percentages
because they lack comprehensive cryptographic protec-
tion combining both classical and post-quantum primitives
with blockchain-enforced authentication, allowing deter-
mined attackers to exploit vulnerabilities in replay detec-
tion or signature verification processes.
4.3.6. Mitigation of combined LDAs
In this experiment, all types of link discovery attacks
are launched, and the resulting metrics are depicted in
Fig. 14.
Attack 5 - Matthews correlation coefficient analysis. The
proposed BQLLDA maintains substantially higher MCC
values throughout attack escalation, ranging from 0.9675
at 0% attacks to 0.7461 at 80% attacks, indicating superior
balanced classification performance in distinguishing legit-
imate versus fabricated links even under extreme adversar-
ial conditions. This robustness derives from the Q-learning
reward function that integrates suspicious behavior mon-
itoring, packet delivery confirmation, and latency analy-
sis to iteratively refine link state classifications, while the
blockchain-based reputation system provides distributed
consensus on node trustworthiness to minimize false pos-
itives and negatives. At 100% attack intensity, BQLLDA
achieves 0.31 MCC compared to negative or near-zero val-
ues for all baseline techniques, attributed to the controller
switching mechanism that maintains partial network func-
tionality by migrating nodes to the trusted backup con-
troller, however; poor performance is owing to the reverse
port-mirror-based LLDP performance being compromised
under higher attack percentages when both sender and re-
ceiver of a link are attackers. Existing approaches demon-
strate steeper MCC degradation, with Link-Guard drop-
ping from 0.9072 to 0.35 at 80% attacks and traditional
LLDP-based methods declining to 0.39-0.44, ultimately
reaching negative values at saturation indicating perfor-
Packet delivery ratio analysis. The proposed BQLLDA
maintains consistently high packet delivery ratios (98%
to 96%) even at 80% attack penetration, only degrad-
ing significantly to 50% at complete saturation (100%
attack). This resilience stems from the Q-learning and
cryptography-driven adaptive link discovery that prior-
itizes suspicious links for verification, combined with
blockchain-based behavioral monitoring that identifies and
blacklists malicious nodes, ensuring traffic routing through
verified paths. In contrast, existing techniques experience
catastrophic degradation beyond 20% attack levels (drop-
ping to 9.3-50.8%), as they lack distributed node reputa-
tion management and controller trust evaluation mecha-
nisms to systematically exclude compromised entities from
the topology.
Channel utilization analysis. The proposed approach ex-
hibits moderate and controlled channel utilization growth
from 14.27% to 36.8% as attack intensity increases, reflect-
ing the state-adaptive epsilon-greedy exploration strategy
that triggers additional LLDP transmissions only for sus-
picious links while maintaining efficient unicast/broadcast
decisions through LLALDI. The blockchain-based packet
limiting with signature matching prevents flooding attacks
from overwhelming the channel, and the controller trust
2870
Prop. BQLLDA
HELLO
Link Guard
80
Prop. BQLLDA
HELLO
Link Guard
60
Channel Utilization (%)
Normal LLDP
Port-based
Pure crypto
40
20
0
50
40
30
20
10
0
20
40
60
Attack percentage (%)
80
0
100
10
20
40
60
80
Attack percentage (%)
100
20
Normal LLDP
Port-based
Pure crypto
40
60
80
Attack percentage (%)
(b)
Normal LLDP
Port-based
Pure crypto
100
(c)
1
Prop. BQLLDA
HELLO
Link Guard
500
4
3
2
1
Normal LLDP
Port-based
Pure crypto
400
300
200
100
0
Prop. BQLLDA
HELLO
Link Guard
5
0
600
Prop. BQLLDA
HELLO
Link Guard
5
10
5
Latency (ms)
Computational complexity ( s)
6
15
0
0
(a)
0
Normal LLDP
Port-based
Pure crypto
Matthews correlation coefficient
Packet delivery ratio (%)
60
Packet interception ratio (%)
100
20
40
60
80
Attack percentage (%)
100
0
0
20
40
60
80
Attack percentage (%)
(d)
(e)
100
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0
-0.2
0
Prop. BQLLDA
HELLO
Link Guard
20
Normal LLDP
Port-based
Pure crypto
40
60
Attack percentage (%)
80
100
(f )
Figure 14: Performance evaluation of combined LD attack (a) Packet delivery rate (b) Channel utilization (c) Packet
capture rate (d) Computational complexity (e) Latency (f) Mathews correlation coefficient
evaluation mechanism (BCTES) penalizes malicious flood-
ing behavior. Conversely, techniques like Normal LLDP
and Port-based suffer from uncontrolled channel satura-
tion (up to 63.7%) at high attack levels due to absence of
intelligent packet limiting and malicious controller detec-
tion.
mechanisms that bind cryptographic keys to specific link
sessions.
Attack 6 - computational complexity analysis. The pro-
posed system demonstrates higher computational over-
head (55,456 to 323,397 µs) compared to lightweight ap-
proaches, attributed to the combined computational bur-
den of blockchain consensus operations, ZKP generation
and verification, post-quantum cryptographic operations
(FALCON-1024, Kyber-1024), and Q-learning state up-
dates across multiple iterations. However, this complexity
increases gracefully and remains manageable even at 80%
attack levels (150,805 µs), while Pure crypto experiences
comparable overhead (512,759 mus at 100%) without the
distributed trust and adaptive learning benefits. The com-
putational investment is justified by the comprehensive se-
curity guarantees and controller switching capability that
existing lightweight techniques cannot provide.
Attack 6 - Packet interception ratio analysis. BQLLDA
achieves zero packet interception across all attack scenar-
ios through its comprehensive cryptographic defense com-
prising time-limited session HMACs, mixed post-quantum
and classical digital signatures, and Diffie-Hellman key ex-
change for symmetric key derivation between legitimate
link endpoints. The two-stage blockchain-driven authen-
tication with ZKPs and encrypted attributes ensures only
authenticated nodes with valid credentials can participate
in link discovery, fundamentally eliminating man-in-the-
middle and replay attack vectors. Other techniques ex-
hibit persistently higher interception rates (8.8-16.06%)
even at benign conditions, as they lack end-to-end encryp-
tion for LLDP packets and sophisticated authentication
Attack 6 - Latency analysis. BQLLDA exhibits controlled
latency growth from 30.1ms to 170ms, reflecting the time
required for multi-round Q-learning iterations (maximum
29• H6: MCC of the proposed technique is lower than or
equal to all other techniques.
6), blockchain smart contract invocations for authentica-
tion and reputation updates, and cryptographic opera-
tions including signature verification and HMAC valida-
tion. The permissioned blockchain’s optimized configura-
tion (batch timeout 100ms, gossip protocol tuning) and the
adaptive link discovery approach that avoids unnecessary
verification of confirmed stable links help maintain reason-
able latency even under 80% attack conditions (79.8ms).
While Pure crypto shows lower latency at maximum attack
(342ms vs 170ms), it lacks the distributed consensus and
behavioral monitoring that enable BQLLDA’s resilience,
and other techniques either suffer from timeout-induced
delays (HELLO at 98.2ms) or complete service degrada-
tion.
We conducted one-sided Wilcoxon signed-rank tests
comparing the proposed method against five baseline ap-
proaches across six attack percentage levels. The Holm-
Bonferroni correction was applied to control the family-
wise error rate across multiple comparisons (α = 0.05)
and the results are given in Table 4.
All comparisons for H1 remained statistically signifi-
cant, therefore null hypothesis H1 can be rejected. H2
is rejected, as the proposed method demonstrated sig-
nificantly higher channel utilization only compared to
HELLO (p = 0.0156), while comparisons with Link guard
(p = 0.7188), NormalLLDP (p = 0.9922), Portbased
(p = 0.9922), and Purecrypto (p = 0.9844) were non-
significant, indicating no statistical evidence that the pro-
posed technique has higher channel utilization than these
methods. H3 is rejected, as all comparisons were statis-
tically significant (p = 0.0156), confirming significantly
lower packet interception rates for the proposed method.
H4 is supported, as results confirmed higher computational
complexity than HELLO, Link Guard, NormalLLDP, and
Port-based (allp = 0.0156), but no significant difference
from Purecrypto (p = 0.781), representing an acceptable
tradeoff for enhanced security and performance. The null
hypothesis H5 was rejected for Link Guard, NormalLLDP,
and Port-based methods (p < 0.05), while showing no sig-
nificant latency decrease against HELLO and Pure Crypto.
H6 is rejected, as all comparisons yielded p < 0.05, demon-
strating that the proposed technique maintains signifi-
cantly superior MCC values, contradicting the null hy-
pothesis.
Effect sizes using Cliff’s δ confirm large practical dif-
ferences: For H1, H3, and H6, δ > 0.8 for all comparisons
indicates BQLLDA achieves superior performance in terms
of MCC, PDR, and PIR.
Attack 6 - MCC analysis. The proposed technique main-
tains strong link state classification performance (MCC:
0.9675 to 0.66) up to 80% attack penetration through Q-
learning-based state determination that integrates suspi-
cious behavior rewards, LLDP delivery events, and latency
observations to converge on correct link states despite
adversarial interference along with signature and HMAC
verifications, blockchain-driven authentication, and strong
encryption. The blockchain-based controller trust evalua-
tion with HELLO packet cross-validation and the reverse
LLDP verification for suspected LLDP-dropping nodes en-
able accurate topology reconstruction by switching away
from malicious controllers and verifying disputed links
through independent endorsement. Existing techniques
experience rapid MCC degradation to near-zero or neg-
ative values beyond 40% attacks, as they rely on single
observations without distributed endorsement consensus
and cannot adapt to persistent adversarial manipulation
of the link discovery process.
5. Discussion
5.1. Statistical significance of the results
5.2. Overall result interpretation
The comprehensive evaluation across five attack sce-
narios and combined attack conditions demonstrates that
BQLLDA achieves superior security-performance balance
through its multi-layered defense architecture. Statisti-
cal analysis using Wilcoxon signed-rank tests with Holm-
Bonferroni correction confirms significant improvements in
packet delivery ratio (97-98% vs. 9-50% for baselines at
high attack intensities), zero packet interception across all
scenarios, consistently high Matthews Correlation Coef-
ficient (0.95-0.66 up to 80% attacks), and competitive la-
tency (24-170 ms) and channel utilization (14%-37%) com-
pared to competing techniques. The framework’s ability to
maintain network functionality even under extreme adver-
sarial conditions (100% attack penetration) through con-
troller switching and adaptive link discovery represents a
fundamental advancement over existing approaches that
assume controller trustworthiness. While BQLLDA incurs
higher computational complexity (46-323 ms) compared to
In order to verify the statistical significance of the re-
sults, we state the following null hypotheses.
• H1: The PDR of the proposed technique is lower than
or equal to all other techniques.
• H2: The channel utilization of proposed technique is
higher than or equal to all other techniques except
HELLO.
• H3: The packet interception ratio of the proposed
technique is higher than or equal to all other tech-
niques.
• H4: Computational complexity of the proposed tech-
nique is higher than or equal to all other techniques
except the technique pure cryptography.
• H5: Latency of the proposed technique is higher than
or equal to all other techniques.
30Table 4: Statistical significance analysis of the performance of the proposed BQLLDA.
Hypothesis
H1
H2
H3
H4
H5
H6
HELLO
W = 21, p = 0.0156
W=0, p=0.0156
W = 0, p = 0.0156
W = 21, p = 0.0156
W = 3, p = 0.156
W=20, p=0.0312
Link guard
W = 21, p = 0.0156
W = 11, p = 0.7188
W = 0, p = 0.0156
W = 21, p = 0.0156
W = 0, p = 0.015
W=20, p=0.0312
Normal LLDP
W = 15, p = 0.0312
W=18, p=0.9922
W = 0, p = 0.0156
W = 21, p = 0.0156
W = 1, p = 0.031
W=20, p=0.0312
unsecured baselines, these costs are justified by the com-
prehensive security guarantees and represent acceptable
trade-offs for mission-critical vehicular applications. The
controlled degradation pattern observed in combined at-
tack scenarios—maintaining 96% PDR at 80% attacks be-
fore dropping to 50% at saturation—demonstrates graceful
performance decay rather than catastrophic failure char-
acteristic of existing techniques.
Port-based
W = 15, p = 0.0312
W=18, p=0.9922
W = 0, p = 0.0156
W = 21, p = 0.0156
W = 1, p = 0.031
W=20, p=0.0312
Pure crypto
W = 15, p = 0.0312
W = 17, p = 0.9844
W = 0, p = 0.0156
W = 7, p = 0.781
W = 5, p = 0.109
W=20, p=0.0312
With K = N/30 controllers (one per 30 nodes), effec-
tive complexity becomes O(30N AJ), achieving linear scal-
ing. However, inter-consortium link discovery for bound-
ary nodes introduces overhead O(BK) where B is the
number of boundary nodes, limiting practical scalability
to metropolitan areas (K < 20 controllers) before coordi-
nation overhead dominates. However, empirical validation
is limited to N=96. Future work must evaluate boundary
node overhead O(B×K) empirically for 200-500 node net-
works to validate the claimed linear scaling, as blockchain
gossip latency may exhibit non-linear growth beyond our
tested scale. The state-adaptive epsilon-greedy Q-learning
strategy reduces computational scaling concerns by per-
forming intensive link verification only for suspicious links
while treating confirmed stable links efficiently, with the
maximum 6 RL iterations per link preventing unbounded
computational growth. However, blockchain consensus la-
tency may increase non-linearly with network density due
to gossip protocol propagation delays and endorsement
policy verification across distributed peers, potentially lim-
iting practical deployments to metropolitan-area networks
(MANs) rather than nationwide infrastructures. However,
real time feasibility of the permissioned blockchain with
respect to throughput under considered simulation set-
tings is given in Appendix 7.1, which theoretically proves
that the proposed system is feasible. The framework’s
packet limiting mechanism (Equation 12) with signature-
based duplicate detection provides O(1) flood attack mit-
igation regardless of attacker population, demonstrating
algorithmic scalability, though the blockchain storage re-
quirements for reputation scores, location histories, and
authentication credentials grow linearly with node count,
necessitating periodic pruning strategies for long-term op-
eration.
5.3. Suitability of BQLLDA
BQLLDA is particularly well-suited for zero-trust SDVN
architectures where both control plane and data plane en-
tities cannot be assumed trustworthy, addressing a crit-
ical gap in existing link discovery security frameworks.
The framework’s blockchain-based distributed consensus
mechanism enables Byzantine fault tolerance without re-
quiring centralized trust assumptions, making it ideal
for consortium-based vehicular networks involving mul-
tiple stakeholders (vehicle manufacturers, infrastructure
providers, network operators) with competing interests.
The mixed post-quantum and classical cryptography ap-
proach future-proofs the system against emerging quan-
tum computing threats while maintaining compatibility
with existing infrastructure, addressing the long deploy-
ment cycles typical in vehicular networks. However,
BQLLDA’s computational requirements make it most suit-
able for modern vehicular platforms with adequate pro-
cessing capabilities (multi-core processors, dedicated secu-
rity co-processors) rather than resource-constrained legacy
systems. The framework’s permissioned blockchain archi-
tecture with dynamic peer selection and optimized gos-
sip protocol configuration (100ms batch timeout, 500ms
pull interval) specifically addresses the low-latency require-
ments of safety-critical vehicular applications, distinguish-
ing it from general-purpose blockchain solutions unsuitable
for real-time operation.
5.5. Strengths of BQLLDA
BQLLDA’s primary strength lies in its comprehen-
sive defense-in-depth architecture that addresses attack
vectors across control plane, data plane, and location
tracking subsystems simultaneously through coordinated
mechanisms rather than point solutions. The frame-
work uniquely addresses controller-level attacks through
the BCTES algorithm with automatic failover to trusted
backup controllers, filling a critical security gap where ex-
isting techniques assume controller trustworthiness and
fail catastrophically when this assumption is violated.
5.4. Scalability of BQLLDA
BQLLDA’s scalability is influenced by several archi-
tectural factors that create both opportunities and con-
straints for large-scale deployment. The multi-controller
architecture achieves sublinear scaling when network
growth is accompanied by proportional controller addi-
tion. For a network partitioned into K consortiums
of N/K nodes each, per-consortium complexity becomes
O((N/K)2 AJ), yielding total complexity O(N 2 AJ/K).
31The blockchain-based weighted endorser trust mechanism
with incentivized consensus provides distributed Byzan-
tine fault tolerance while maintaining network function-
ality even when significant portions of endorsers (up to
33% based on BFT-SMaRt properties) exhibit malicious
behavior. The dual-stage authentication combining ZKP-
STARK proofs with time-limited session HMACs creates
cryptographically strong binding between link discovery
sessions and registered node identities, preventing replay
attacks while minimizing authentication latency through
cached proof reuse (reducing subsequent authentications
by approximately 60% compared to full challenge-response
cycles). The Q-learning-based adaptive link discovery
demonstrates intelligent resource allocation by intensifying
verification for suspicious links while minimizing overhead
for stable legitimate links, achieving security-efficiency
trade-offs impossible with static security policies.
5.7. Implications of BQLLDA
BQLLDA’s successful demonstration of zero-trust link
discovery in SDVNs has significant implications for future
vehicular network security architectures, suggesting that
distributed consensus mechanisms and adaptive machine
learning can achieve security guarantees previously consid-
ered impractical for real-time systems. The framework’s
blockchain-based reputation management paradigm ex-
tends beyond link discovery to inform broader questions
about decentralized trust establishment in vehicular net-
works, potentially enabling new applications such as coop-
erative perception data validation, distributed traffic man-
agement, and peer-to-peer resource sharing without cen-
tralized arbitration. The mixed post-quantum and clas-
sical cryptography approach validates the feasibility of
transitional security architectures that provide quantum
resistance while maintaining backward compatibility, of-
fering a deployment pathway for vehicular networks with
10-15 year infrastructure lifecycles facing quantum com-
puting emergence. From a standardization perspective,
BQLLDA’s architecture suggests necessary extensions to
existing ETSI ITS-G5 and C-V2X standards to incor-
porate controller trust evaluation, distributed behavioral
monitoring, and blockchain-based authentication mecha-
nisms beyond current certificate-based approaches. The
demonstrated trade-offs between security guarantees and
computational costs (55-323 ms overhead) establish quan-
titative benchmarks for evaluating future zero-trust ve-
hicular protocols, suggesting that security-critical applica-
tions justify these costs while delay-sensitive applications
may require hybrid approaches combining BQLLDA’s
comprehensive security for control plane with lightweight
mechanisms for time-critical data plane forwarding.
5.6. Weaknesses of BQLLDA
BQLLDA’s computational complexity (46-323 ms) and
latency (24-170 ms) represent significant operational costs
compared to unsecured baselines, potentially limiting ap-
plicability in ultra-low-latency applications requiring sub-
10ms response times such as autonomous vehicle emer-
gency braking coordination. At 80% attack, the computa-
tional complexity breakdown is approximately C crypto =
62%, C blockchain = 28%, C RL = 7%, C location = 3%
(Refer to appendix 7.4), indicating cryptographic opera-
tions dominate overheadThe blockchain infrastructure in-
troduces architectural dependencies (Docker containers for
subordinate CAs, gRPC communication channels, per-
sistent storage for ledgers) that complicate deployment
compared to lightweight centralized approaches, requir-
ing careful capacity planning and maintenance procedures
that may exceed capabilities of smaller vehicular network
operators. The framework’s effectiveness against LLDP
dropping attacks (Attack 5) degrades significantly when
both sender and receiver of a link are malicious (MCC
dropping to 0.31 at 100% attacks), as the reverse LLDP
verification mechanism through port mirrors cannot over-
come coordinated dropping by colluding endpoints. This
motivates future work on physical-layer link verification
orthogonal to protocol-layer defenses. The permissioned
blockchain architecture, while providing performance ad-
vantages over permissionless alternatives, introduces gov-
ernance challenges regarding consortium membership, en-
dorsement policy configuration, and certificate authority
management that require ongoing coordination among po-
tentially competing stakeholders. The Q-learning conver-
gence to optimal policies requires multiple link discovery
cycles (up to 6 RL iterations), introducing transient pe-
riods where link state classifications may be suboptimal,
though this weakness is partially mitigated by the con-
servative suspicious state classifications that trigger addi-
tional verification.
6. Conclusion
In this paper, we presented a blockchain and Q-
learning-based cryptographically secure technique to mit-
igate link discovery attacks in zero-trust SDVN by de-
riving link states with the aid of Q-learning-based adap-
tive link state determination, blockchain-based weighted
endorser trust mechanism enabling Byzantine fault tol-
erance, and controller trust evaluation with automatic
switching, cycle-based digital signatures with encryption,
time-based session-limited hash message authentication
codes, packet limiting, and location verification. Unlike
existing approaches assuming controller trustworthiness,
BQLLDA provides comprehensive defense against five at-
tack variants targeting control plane, data plane, and lo-
cation tracking subsystems. The results proved that the
proposed BQLLDA is highly effective in mitigating the
5 link discovery attacks presented in this research indi-
vidually and in combination compared to approaches pro-
posed for SDN and VANET. An analysis of the obtained
results proved that the proposed BQLLDA can prevent
packet losses (97-98% PDR uto 80% attack), reduce eaves-
dropping (0% PIR), reduce link discovery confusion (MCC
32of 0.95-0.66 up to 80% attack) significantly outperform-
ing all other techniques, while it achieves competitive la-
tency (24-170 ms) and channel utilization (14%-37%) in
SDVN despite being reported for higher computational
complexity (46-323 ms) which can be traded off for all
other gains. Performance degradation at 100% attack sat-
uration (PDR: 27-50%, MCC: 0.31) when both endpoints
are malicious reveals verification-based defense limitations,
suggesting physical layer authentication necessity for ex-
treme scenarios. BQLLDA’s demonstrated feasibility es-
tablishes that distributed consensus and adaptive learning
can achieve zero-trust security while meeting real-time ve-
hicular requirements.
Several limitations guide future work: (1) Scalabil-
ity beyond 200 nodes: Current O(N AJ) complexity re-
quires hierarchical Q-learning approximation or graph neu-
ral networks for large-scale deployment, motivated by
metropolitan SDVN scenarios with 500+ vehicles, (2) hy-
brid architectures for ultra-low-latency applications (<
10ms), (3) cross-layer physical-cryptographic authentica-
tion addressing coordinated endpoint attacks integrating
RF fingerprinting could identify compromised radios be-
fore protocol-layer detection, as attack 5 shows 0.31 MCC
at 100% saturation when both endpoints are malicious;
(4) improving energy efficiency: Vehicles report 46-323ms
computation overhead; so, real-world testbed validation
with energy optimization for resource-constrained OBUs
may be required, and (5) incorporating anomaly detection
to detect malicious nodes. BQLLDA provides a founda-
tion for secure next-generation intelligent transportation
systems operating under zero-trust assumptions.
7.2. Security analysis
7.2.1. Fabrication resistance
Lemma 1. Under the assumption that RSA-2048 is EUF-
CMA secure, an attacker without skC cannot forge valid
packet out signatures with probability > negl(λ).
Proof. Fabrication requires producing σ = Sign(skC , m)
for attacker-chosen message m. If attacker A succeeds
with non-negligible probability ϵ(λ), we construct adver-
sary B breaking RSA-2048’s EUF-CMA security: B re-
ceives pkC from challenger, simulates BQLLDA by answer-
ing A’s signing queries using its own oracle, and outputs
A’s forgery (m∗ , σ ∗ ) as its own forgery. Since B succeeds
whenever A does, B’s advantage is ϵ(λ), contradicting
RSA-2048 security assumption that no polynomial-time
adversary has non-negligible advantage.
7.2.2. Replay Resistance
Lemma 2. With HMAC lifetime τ < Tmax , probability
of successful replay after expiration is bounded by collision
probability of HMAC-SHA256: Preplay < 2−256 .
Proof. For replay to succeed post-expiration, at-
tacker must either: (1) predict future HMAC key
(information-theoretically impossible given key derivation
from KDHSC ), or (2) find HMAC collision. Under ran-
dom oracle model, collision probability is bounded by
birthday bound Pcollision ≤ q 2 /2257 where q is number
of queries. For polynomial-time attacker with q < 264 ,
Preplay < 2−129 , which is negligible.
7.3. BQLLDA complexity analysis
BQLLDA has time complexity O(N 2 × A × J × Tcrypto )
where N = nodes, A = ports, J = RL iterations, Tcrypto =
cryptographic operation time. Dominant costs: (1) signa-
ture verification O(N 2 × J) for packet in, (2) blockchain
queries O(N ) for reputation retrieval, (3) Q-value updates
O(N 2 × A × J). Space complexity is O(N 2 × A) for Q-
table storage. Compared to standard LLDP’s O(N 2 ), our
overhead factor is O(A × J × Tcrypto /Tsimple ) ≈ 10-50×
depending on J and cryptographic choices, where typical
values are A = 4, J = 6, Tcrypto /Tsimple ≈ 0.4-2.0 (based
on FALCON-1024 verification time 0.8 ms vs. simple for-
warding 0.02 ms).
7. Appendix
7.1. Throughput analysis of blockchain
With BFT-SMaRt ordering (3f + 1 replicas), batch size
B = 30, and block time Tb = 100 ms, maximum through-
put is B/Tb = 300 TPS. For N = 96 nodes with loca-
tion update frequency floc = 1 s and reputation updates
frep = 1 s:
Blockchain transaction sources:
• BWTRCB: Updates reputation, location, and loca-
tion reputation per node. Triggered by location track-
ing at floc = 1 Hz for all nodes = N × floc = 96 × 1
= 96 TPS
7.4. Computational complexity calculation
• Controller trust evaluation (BCTES): Random subset
(10% nodes) verification = 0.1 × N/THELLO = 0.1 ×
96/1 s ≈ 9.6 TPS
Computational complexity is decomposed into:
(1) C crypto: aggregate time for signature genera-
tion/verification, encryption/decryption, and HMAC
computations across all packets; (2) C blockchain:
smart contract invocation latency including endorse-
ment and ordering; (3) C RL:
Q-learning state
updates and action selection; and (4) C location:
location verification computations.
Total complexity
C total = C crypto + C blockchain + C RL + C location.
• Registration data (RASC): Private data collection
committed once per registration = N/60 s ≈ 1.6 TPS
• Authentication timestamps (RASC): Private data col-
lection committed once per authentication expiration
= N × A/4 s ≈ 96 TPS
Total steady-state load: 96 + 9.6 + 1.6 + 96 = 203.2 TPS
(32.3% headroom), validating real-time feasibility.
33Additional note: Initial registration incurs 250-400ms
for ZKP-STARK generation (Cairo prover v0.11), amor-
tized across node lifetime through blockchain caching.
Subsequent authentications require only 10-15 ms verifi-
cation. For vehicles with average network residence time
→> 60s and re-authentication every 1 s, amortized per-
session overhead becomes (400 + 15*60)/61 ≈ 21 ms, ac-
ceptable for link discovery.
detection in SDN control plane: a case study of topology discov-
ery attacks. Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing,
2020(1), p.8898949.
[13] A. Nehra, M. Tripathi, M.S. Gaur, R.B. Battula, and C. Lal,
” SLDP: A secure and lightweight link discovery protocol for
software defined networking,” Computer Networks, 150, pp.102-
116, 2019.
[14] I. Al Salti, and N. Zhang, ”LINK-GUARD: An effective and
scalable security framework for link discovery in SDN net-
works,” IEEE Access, 10, pp.130233-130252, 2022.
[15] Zhao, X., Yao, L. and Wu, G., 2018. ESLD: An efficient
and secure link discovery scheme for software-defined network-
ing. International Journal of Communication Systems, 31(10),
p.e3552.
[16] Spina, M.G., Tropea, M. and De Rango, F., 2023. Mitigation
of LLDP Topological Poisoning Attack in SDN Environments
Using Mininet Emulator. In SIMULTECH (pp. 318-325).
[17] Wang, J., Tan, Y., Liu, J. and Zhang, Y., 2020. Topology poi-
soning attack in SDN-enabled vehicular edge network. IEEE
Internet of Things Journal, 7(10), pp.9563-9574.
[18] Wijesekara, P.A.D.S.N. Intrusion Detection Using Blockchain
in Software-Defined Networking: A Literature Review. Journal
of Engineering Science and Technology Review 2025, 18(1).
[19] Cardona, N.; Coronado, E.; Latré, S.; Riggio, R.; Marquez-
Barja, J.M. Software-defined vehicular networking: Opportuni-
ties and challenges. IEEE Access 2020, 8, 219971–219995.
[20] Al-Hourani, A., Chandrasekharan, S., Baldini, G. and Kan-
deepan, S., 2014, November. Propagation measurements in 5.8
GHz and pathloss study for CEN-DSRC. In 2014 International
Conference on Connected Vehicles and Expo (ICCVE) (pp.
1086-1091). IEEE.
[21] Aljeri, N. and Boukerche, A., 2020, November. A distributed
topology discovery protocol for software-defined vehicular net-
works. In Proceedings of the 17th ACM Symposium on Perfor-
mance Evaluation of Wireless Ad Hoc, Sensor, & Ubiquitous
Networks (pp. 17-24).
[22] P.A.D.S.N. Wijesekara, K.L.K. Sudheera, G.G.N. Sandamali,
and P.H.J. Chong, “An Optimization Framework for Data Col-
lection in Software Defined Vehicular Networks,” Sensors, vol.
23, no. 3, Art. no. 1600, Feb. 2023.
[23] Das, T., Sridharan, V. and Gurusamy, M., 2019. A survey on
controller placement in SDN. IEEE communications surveys &
tutorials, 22(1), pp.472-503.
[24] Kaur, R. and Kaur, A., 2012, September. Digital signature. In
2012 International Conference on Computing Sciences (pp. 295-
301). IEEE.
[25] Michail, H.E., Kakarountas, A.P., Milidonis, A. and Goutis,
C.E., 2004, December. Efficient implementation of the keyed-
hash message authentication code (HMAC) using the SHA-1
hash function. In Proceedings of the 2004 11th IEEE Interna-
tional Conference on Electronics, Circuits and Systems, 2004.
ICECS 2004. (pp. 567-570). IEEE.
[26] B. Jang, M. Kim, G. Harerimana, and J.W. Kim, “Q-learning
algorithms: A comprehensive classification and applications,”
IEEE access, vol. 7, pp.133653-133667, Sep. 2019.
[27] Grassi, L., Khovratovich, D., Rechberger, C., Roy, A. and
Schofnegger, M., 2021. Poseidon: A new hash function for Zero-
Knowledge proof systems. In 30th USENIX Security Sympo-
sium (USENIX Security 21) (pp. 519-535).
[28] National Institute of Standards and Technology, ”Recommenda-
tion for Key Management: Part 1 – General (Revision 5), NIST
Special Publication 800-57 Part 1 Rev. 5,” May 2020. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-57pt1r5
7.5. MCC classes
The true positive is obtained when a packet is delivered
in a link predicted by LDS. True negative is LDA predicts
as link not existing and packet is also not delivered. False
positive is packet is not delivered, but the LDS specifies a
link exists. False negative is packet is delivered, but LDS
has predicted link does not exist.
References
[1] P.A.D.S.N. Wijesekara, and S. Gunawardena, “A Machine
Learning-Aided Network Contention-Aware Link Lifetime- and
Delay-Based Hybrid Routing Framework for Software-Defined
Vehicular Networks,” Telecom, vol. 4, no. 3, pp. 393-458, Jul.
2023.
[2] Li, H. and Xu, Z., 2018. Routing Protocol in VANETs Equipped
with Directional Antennas: Topology-Based Neighbor Discov-
ery and Routing Analysis. Wireless Communications and Mo-
bile Computing, 2018(1), p.7635143.
[3] Deng, S., Zhang, X. and Gao, X., 2024. Poisoning Topology
View in Software-Defined Vehicular Network: An Empirical
Study. IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Sys-
tems.
[4] Abdelrahman, A.M., Rodrigues, J.J., Mahmoud, M.M., Saleem,
K., Das, A.K., Korotaev, V. and Kozlov, S.A., 2021. Software-
defined networking security for private data center networks
and clouds: vulnerabilities, attacks, countermeasures, and solu-
tions. International Journal of Communication Systems, 34(4),
p.e4706.
[5] Zhang, T., Bianco, A., Giaccone, P. and Nezhad, A.P., 2017,
December. Dealing with misbehaving controllers in SDN net-
works. In GLOBECOM 2017-2017 IEEE Global Communica-
tions Conference (pp. 1-6). IEEE.
[6] Badotra, S., Tanwar, S., Bharany, S., Rehman, A.U., Eldin,
E.T., Ghamry, N.A. and Shafiq, M., 2022. A DDoS vulnerability
analysis system against distributed SDN controllers in a cloud
computing environment. Electronics, 11(19), p.3120.
[7] Bhuiyan, Z.A., Islam, S., Islam, M.M., Ullah, A.A., Naz, F. and
Rahman, M.S., 2023. On the (in) security of the control plane of
sdn architecture: A survey. IEEE Access, 11, pp.91550-91582.
[8] Wei, Z., Chen, Q., Yang, H., Wu, H., Feng, Z. and Ning, F.,
2021. Neighbor discovery for VANET with gossip mechanism
and multipacket reception. IEEE Internet of Things Journal,
9(13), pp.10502-10515.
[9] Nguyen, T.H. and Yoo, M., 2017, January. Analysis of link dis-
covery service attacks in SDN controller. In 2017 International
Conference on Information Networking (ICOIN) (pp. 259-261).
IEEE.
[10] Baidya, S.S., & Hewett, R.. 2020. Link discovery attacks in
software-defined networks: Topology poisoning and impact
analysis. Journal of Communications, 15(8), pp. 596-606.
[11] Katsis C, Bertino E. ZT-SDN: an ML-powered zero-trust ar-
chitecture for software-defined networks. ACM Transactions on
Privacy and Security. 2025 Feb 22;28(2):1-35.
[12] Chou, L.D., Liu, C.C., Lai, M.S., Chiu, K.C., Tu, H.H., Su, S.,
Lai, C.L., Yen, C.K. and Tsai, W.H., 2020. Behavior anomaly
34